--- 
title: Inverness to Fort William (via Loch Ness)
categories: [scotland2020]
distance: 115
time: 7h
geopoints: 
  - [57.47874220561133, -4.226818084716798]
  - [57.46415790200031, -4.232482910156251]
  - [57.25602334673226, -4.489288330078126]
  - [57.186878727657934, -4.534606933593751]
  - [57.154119970299, -4.588165283203126]
  - [57.14890567292212, -4.681549072265626]
  - [57.09896020435969, -4.733734130859376]
  - [56.947970275100204, -4.97955322265625]
  - [56.92099675839107, -4.994659423828126]
  - [56.845967934901516, -5.099029541015626]
  - [56.824181393937394, -5.104522705078126]
date: 2020-08-11
image: images/scotland/2020-08-11-2.jpg
aliases:
  - /blog/2020/08/11/inverness-fort-william
---

Today was another spectacular day of cycling featuring some of the best
scenery of the trip so far, and I wasn't expecting it.

In the morning I woke and checked my watch. The bunk bed was equipped with a
shelf offering USB ports and a power outlet. I had plugged in my phone and
battery directly above my head, and when I went to check my phone it slipped
and hit me sharply on the head which is when I decided to get out of bed.

I was sharing the 6 bed dorm with just one other person. A young guy that was
supposed to be (motor) biking 500 miles around the top coast of Scotland "but my friend
bailed on me" he wasn't very talkative and neither was I but he was a good
dorm companion. "See you" "Bye"

I asked the reception guy if I could fetch my bike from the garage. "Nice
weather for it" he said - it had been raining heavily in the morning, but at
this point it had stopped.

The garage (which was really for storage of the beer kegs) was already open
and there was a family of three readying their bikes. The kid was about 14 and
the parents late fifties, they were cycling up to Joan-O-Groats - I
considered that maybe _I_ should cycle there, almost seems a shame that I
won't do the entire northern coast. But am following my plan, and will stay a
few weeks with my brother - or at least see what happens when I get there.

I needed breakfast and had a look about town, I checked out the café where I
had breakfast the day before, I would have wanted to sit outside with the
bike, but there were no tables, so I found a bakery instead and got an under
satisfying vegetable quiche, danish pastry and coffee for £5.95 - the cost of
a full and filling vegetarian breakfast from the café with "Eat out to help
out".

I sat by the river side on a bench and then simply got on my bike and started
cycling along the river towards Loch Ness.

The weather was damp but it wasn't raining. Quite soon I came upon my first
view of the famous Loch and continued to cycle beside it for an hour or so, it
was mostly obstructed by trees but occasionally you'd see the water and the
hills on the other side. It is the largest lake by volume in the United
Kingdom and probably does _not_ contain a monster at this point in time. It's
actually a fault line.

![view](/images/scotland/2020-08-11-1.jpg)
_First view of Loch Ness_

There was very little traffic around and on the lake, I saw a single sailing
boat.

I thought that Loch Ness would be the highlight, but today could be
split into four different sections, with Loch Ness being the first.


After Loch Ness the road turned away from the river and I started cycling more
slowly, I didn't notice that I was climbing a mountain pass until I was nearly
at the top - when checked my altimeter saw that I was already at 400m, and
thought I could see the "summit" - but it was still very cloudily and the
visibility wasn't great, which is a shame as the views would have been great.

![view](/images/scotland/2020-08-11-2.jpg)
_My altimeter showing 446m - almost certainly too high, calibrated a few days
earlier_

At the top I sat down a stone (there seems to be a lack of benches) and ate
lunch - stale bread with cheese triangles, peanut butter and salted honey
nuts. The ~300m descent to the town of Fort Augustus was fun and I stopped
numerous times on the way down to take photos of the unfolding scenery.

![view](/images/scotland/2020-08-11-3.jpg)
_Scenery on the descent_


![view](/images/scotland/2020-08-11-4.jpg)
_More_

![view](/images/scotland/2020-08-11-5.jpg)
_Still more_

The town, being at the other end of Loch Ness, was full of tourists, and there
was little space for a cycle tourer to buy a beer, but I found a petrol
station was doubled as a "Londis" convenience store and got a single Stella
Aritois beer and 4 millionaire shortbreads, then sat down on the free benches
outside the public toilets and ate two shortbreads and an apple and was happy
to start moving again.

Now I joined the path which ran along side the Caledonia canal build to link
Inverness in the east with Fort William in the west. It was flat (of course)
which was a relief, but not particularly interesting. Later I joined path
which ran on a failed railway line which was to join Inverness with Fort
William, constructed at the turn of the century the company went out of
business in 1946 or there abouts. Old railways always make good cycle paths.

![view](/images/scotland/2020-08-11-6.jpg)
_Canal path_

After this the route went onto a forest road, there were warnings of "forest
works in progress" and indeed at one point my way was blocked by a digger with
it's bucket arching over the entire road and the engine was on, I approached
cautiously and the driver saw me and waved me through.

My water was running a bit low, and I was riding through past the steep banks
leading into the Loch and there were many small streams gushing from the side
of the road into pools of water which drained into the lake, I stopped at one
and filled a plastic bottle, I tasted it and it tasted fine and was cool and
crystal clear.

![view](/images/scotland/2020-08-11-10.jpg)
_Water pool_

As I exited this section I rejoined the canal path and saw some very grand
mountains on the horizon. The highest one was surrounded conspicuously by
clouds, I guessed that it was [Ben
Nevis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ben_Nevis) (the highest mountain in the United
Kingdom) and my suspicion was soon confirmed. I had no idea that Ben Nevis was
here, it still had snow on it.

My foot was itching, and on inspection it was the one in which I had failed to
extract the tick, I decided to have another attempt at extracting the rest of
it, and succeeded partially, but I think there is still a black dot. Hopefully
it will grow out, I probably should get a more suitable pair of tweezers. The
"wound" doesn't seem to be as irritated now however.

![view](/images/scotland/2020-08-11-11.jpg)
_Ben Nevis covered with clouds_

Finally I cycled into Fort William, having covered around 110km. I decided to
try and stay in one of the hostels on the map, and failing that continue to
wild camp. The first hostel was up a very steep hill, and they had a bed, but
due to Covid they would charge me for an entire dorm room - £50. The woman was
apologetic (she wasn't the boss) and I said I try the "backpackers" which was
up yet another very steep hill. 

![view](/images/scotland/2020-08-11-12.jpg)
_View of Ben Nevis from the village of Caol near Fort William_

I had to ride down a one-way street and had an angry fat man in a huge utility
vehicle look very angrily at me and I heard something like "one way road".
Fair enough, but _if_ I was cycling the _right_ way up the road, we would have
the same problem, worse probably as I wouldn't see him to let him pass. In
anycase if I wanted to cycle the correct way I would have had to have cycled
down 100m and cross a dual carriageway. All it takes is a sign saying "except for
cycles" and people like that wouldn't even notice.

![view](/images/scotland/2020-08-11-8.jpg)
_Possibly Loch Lochy or Loch Oich_

![view](/images/scotland/2020-08-11-9.jpg)
_Rejoining the canal_

Anyway, the backpackers was full and I decided to wild camp, but I didn't. I
got to the bottom of town and noticed that there was the cycle path was on the
other side of the lake -- there was no bridge, and I would need to get a
ferry. I didn't want to do that, I was knackered. I decided to stay at the £50
"hostel".

I locked my bike in the car park. My "room" has two bunk beds in it and little
else, it's all mine, It feels cheap,, the reception is 24h and you need to
leave your key at the reception when you leave, the WiFi is absolutely awful.
The room has a nice view on the loch however.
