--- 
title: Oban to Tarbert
categories: [scotland2020]
distance: 115
time: 7h20m
geopoints: 
  - [56.39832454146607, -5.4979705810546875]
  - [56.432129570086204, -5.237731933593751]
  - [56.26623584595028, -5.28167724609375]
  - [56.06206965002374, -5.467071533203125]
  - [56.03676022216059, -5.444412231445313]
  - [55.95996353910976, -5.4499053955078125]
  - [55.866835396047925, -5.4155731201171875]
  - [55.85604579744279, -5.437545776367188]
date: 2020-08-13
image: images/scotland/2020-08-13-2.jpg
aliases:
  - /blog/2020/08/13/oran-tarbert
---

The campsite provided a good nights sleep, and it wasn't cold in the morning.
I left at around 9am - I had thought that if I picked up my route that the
next shop would be in 10 miles, but the campsite manager looked puzzled by
this "why don't you go to Oban, it's only 10 minutes down the road" "No, I'm
not going that way" I said. I was very confused the evening previously. After
10 minutes of cycling I found a huge Tescos - although I didn't go in because
for fear of getting lost inside and queuing for however many minutes while my
bike was outside, but I found a bakery instead and got some bread and a
chocolate brownie, which I have just this very minute eaten.

The first characteristic of this day has been hills, the second sun. The day
had gone by pretty fast.

![view](/images/scotland/2020-08-13-1.jpg)
_Country road_

I rejoined the cycle network heading east (avoidng the very busy coastal main
road) and it was an endless succession of hills, I was feeling hungry and
stopped at a bench dedicated to "John of Glasgow Orphans Choir, 1936", there
was a secondary inscription "- 50 years later - John and Jane doe still
remember jolly John" or similar. There was some litter on the bench and I
picked it up as I left, and have been doing this generally if I notice any.

I don't know if it was hotter today than yesterday, but because of the hills
it at least felt that way and after the first 20k I had emptied 1.5 liters of
water, and to be safe wanted to get some more. At the first town I stopped and
got an Isotonic sports drink and two flapjacks. I avoided buying water as it's
more expensive that in Europe, and I was sure to find a free source later.

![view](/images/scotland/2020-08-13-2.jpg)
_"Proper Lush"_

The time until the next stop was pretty much a continuation, more hills, up
and down. Some interesting woodland. There was lots of timber traffic, and the
road was only wide enough for one car at a time, so I often had to wait for a
car to pass, or a car would stop 10m ahead of me while I was riding up a hill
and wait for me to pass, I courteously ride faster, wearing myself out in the
process.

Cyclists almost always nod at me, but also some motorcyclists, and as I stood
at the top of a pass at 280m sweating and catching my breath I got a cheer from
a guy in a land rover.

![view](/images/scotland/2020-08-13-3.jpg)
_Hazy Mountain_

I stopped in a "forestry commision" picnic area for lunch, and ate some
pre-cooked pasta I got in a co-op the day before, one of the flapjacks and
drank the isotonic drink. I studied my map - which is pretty pointless as it's
my main occupation, and I've studied countless times now. I should read Moby
Dick instead.

I started reading Moby Dick on my new tablet, I've read it once many years ago
but had forgotten how good it was, so I've put down "Surveillance Capitalism"
for now and am reading Herman Melville - it's also much easier to read the
tablet in the tent.

I passed through the village of Dallavich and stopped at an Inn to get a
pint, I had to provide my surname and phone number, I wore the mask inside,
but the other two customers weren't wearing one. The lady filled my bottles
with water and I sat under a gazebo in the beer garden.

My target today was Tarbert. From Tarbert there is a ferry which it is
necessary to take if I want to reach Glasgow. I was already riding down the
coast and Tarbert was, at this point, about 15 miles - but the cycle signs
path said 39 miles - this is because the only road down the coast was a busy
"A" road, and the cycle path did a huge detour around a "nature reserve". 

I knew that I wanted to be a one day cycle ride from Glasgow when I stopped,
and although it would be possible to do another 60km today, or even 30-40km
and wild camp, it didn't appeal to me. So I decided to do nine miles on the
busy road.

When I looked at the map however I saw that the traffic had few places to go,
there was only one town (Campbeltown), and when I reached Ardishaig (where the
detour would start) the road it wasn't troublingly busy. I got some extra food
at the towns only shop, and some tobacco - which cost a staggering Â£15.

![view](/images/scotland/2020-08-13-4.jpg)
_Loch_

The "A" road was monotonous enough and there were plently of lorries which had
to overtake me, but it saved around four hours.

![view](/images/scotland/2020-08-13-5.jpg)
_Looking back on Ardishaig_

When I got to Tarbert I had covered just over 100k. I cycled through the
village and up to the ferry port, I could see it was a car ferry and was
sailing away. It went every hour from 6:30am. There was a campsite about 7km
further down the road, and I decided to check it out.

I continued down the main road, it was hilly and was more of an energy
investment than I had imagined - it occurred to me that it might not even be
open - I hadn't seen any signs, I switched on my mobile internet (of which
very little remains) and looked up the website, it allowed "Caravans, Camping
and Glamping".

I was relieved to see it was open after cycling 30 minutes past Tarbert, and I
cycled up to reception and rang the bell. The guy asked if I booked, I said
no. He said that tents weren't allowed because of Covid - but he'd make an
exception.

![view](/images/scotland/2020-08-13-6.jpg)
_Only Tent in the campsite_


My tent is the only tent in the tent area and it's almost completely quiet.
There is apparently internet, and a common room which I'm hoping will be open
so that I can plugin my laptop later.

Tomorrow I will get the ferry, and cycle past Glasgow to Eaglesham.



