--- 
title: "Day 6: Rest"
categories: [mannheim2025]
date: 2025-10-08
draft: false
image: /images/mannheim2025/202510061746-strepylift.jpg
---
I didn't intend to have a rest day today. It would've been nice to have had a
rest day tomorrow in Cologne or Dusseldorf. It's true that I was tired and the
rest is welcome but I'd would've liked to have powered through to my
destination before attending the conference and then figuring out what to do
next, as I would be in the middle of Europe and at least a weeks ride from
Ouistreham and home, I'm also due to take part in the Great South Run in a
week Sunday - a race that I'm not really prepared for and my knee will decide
if I can run it at all.

One of the sacrifices I made on this tour was my running shoes. All in all,
despite having less than half of the space I had on the big touring bike, I
haven't missed much of it. True, I have a _very_ limited set of clothing, but
that doesn't prohibit me from doing things, and in many ways the choice of
clothing I have with me is quite flexible. The running shoes exclude an entire
activity however. I tried to fit them in the rear bag, but it was too tight. I
had envisioned doing the Parkrun in Mannheim before the conference and I
really wanted to do a run today even though my legs are sore.

Before leaving one of the things on my B-list was a pair of minimal running
shoes. Shoes with "zero drop" footwear that you could run in (as _if_
barefoot). Such shoes have a very slim profile and would've been no trouble to
pack.

So with this in mind, I ventured out to find some footwear. As I ventured
further and further I realised that such footwear as I desired would not only
aid in running but in walking too. Walking six miles in cleated cycling shoes
is no fun at all. *crack crick crack* go I down the road. These shoes were not
made for walking and that's not what they do. For the conference I think I'll
remove the cleats as I did not succeed in finding my shoes today.

I eventually walked all the way to a Decathlon, reasoning that, although it
was a long walk, they would _surely_ have my desire and I'd benefit from an
easy walk back in my new footwear. It was not to be however. I found the
Decathlon but they had no "zero drop" running shoes, nor did they have have
sandals (not for running, but perhaps for walking). They had _aqua_ shoes
which fit the profile, I googled "can you run in aquashoes" and Reddit was
very much on the side of "no". As I hobbled back in increasing discomfort I
reflected that I should've got those aquashoes. Anything was better than my
current walking footwear.

I slept well last night in the eight-bed dormitory and I had to decide what to
do. Should I stay or should I go? The doubt was because I had looked at the
hotel prices in Dusseldorf and Cologne. They _started_ at €200 euros a night
and on average the cost seemed to be around €300 per night. I had intended to
stay two nights, even as a business expense I found that ridiculous. At the
same time I was very comfortable in Liege and had ample opportunity to do some
work and walk about town.

I booked the cheapest expensive hotel in Dusseldorf, it cost my business
about £180 pounds and I extended my stay at the Yust hostel. It was only later
in the day that I realised that two of the people I was meeting _lived_ in
Dusseldorf and both offered me a place to stay, which would have been far
preferable to staying in a hotel. But I can't cancel it, so I'll stay in it
out of spite. I was mildly mollified by the fact that the A&O hostel was
explicitly friendly to cycle travelers.

So now I was extended and got a new bed in a new room and transferred my stuff
from one room to the other and left to find breakfast. I was hungry, which
meant I haven't over-eaten the night before, so I got three pastries (the
hostel breakfast cost €19 euros which is silly, that's dinner prices) and sat
down to try and do some work.

I tried working on one project, and then tried working on another project with
more success. But I was tired and my heart wasn't in it, although I did what I
set out to do and logged about 4 hours.

I then departed on my day-quest for shoes and, as not mentioned previously, a
charging cable for my Garmin watch, also not found, which is sad because my
watch ran out of battery finally today, it's not a huge deal however as I was
only using it to tell the time as I can't run and I've ordered a new one on
Amazon to be delivered to the conference organisers office in Mannhiem.

I hobbled back into the hostel and went to bed and dozed for an hour or two. I
haven't spoken to anybody in the hostel so far. Considering it's price range
it feels quite corporate. As I mentioned yesterday it's essentially a We-Work
hostel, it even has co-working facility which I used (or abused) this morning.
There is lots of corporate cultural appropriation (old LPs lining the toilets,
second hand books everywhere, to create the "vibe" without the depth). But
it's nice 🤷

I transferred music to my "old school MP3 player". Some people might question
why I have an "MP3 player" with me. It's really simple - I like to listen to
music when I'm cycling. Yes you can use a phone, but then you couple music
listening to your phone - the phone is essential, the music not so much -
there's also the matter of headphones. Bluetooth headphones work, on averge
for me, once in every two tries. There's always one that isn't charged. The
MP3 player _just works_. The battery lasts about 20 hours and the headphones
have wires. The first time it ran out of batteries was when I was cycling
across France and I had forgotten the charging cable. The final reason is that
I run [Rockbox](https://www.rockbox.org) which is a custom operating system
for MP3 players which radically improves the capability of the player. It's
better than any player on a phone that I've used. Unfortunately Rockbox isn't
maintained anymore and the best device for it is the Sansa Clip - I've been
through about 10 of these devices and the last few have been second hand
purchases.

Finally I left to eat dinner at an Indian Restaurant. It wasn't a good idea.
It felt like I was eating something that should've cost, in total, about €5
and the beer was served in 330ml bottles, that's approximately two gulps for
me. It's as soon started as finished and I ordered another but it was never
delivered and I resolved to just eat up and go.

Tomorrow is another day and, assuming my bike hasn't been stolen I'll be
hitting the road again.










