--- 
title: "Day 4: Mons"
categories: [mannheim2025]
date: 2025-10-06
draft: false
distance: 126
time: 6h00m
elapsed: 7h30m
image: /images/mannheim2025/202510051807-puncture.jpg
gpx: /gpx/mannheim2025/day4.gpx
aliases:
  - /blog/2018/06/27/silkeborg-rebild
  - /blog/2025/10/05/day-4-mons/
---

I'm now sitting in a rather empty Pizzeria in the center of Mons, Belgium. I'm
feeling accutely self-concious as, even though I have frequently written these posts
in pizzerias, it feels odd today. It's been an interesting day.

I didn't have all of my things stolen by gangsters last night which was nice,
because it wasn't entirely out of the question. When I turned up at the site
and was scouting for my pitch there were a couple of French guys dressed in
tracksuits in a little chalet with a little dog that didn't have a passive
disposition. As I walked around the campsite there were a few "shady" types,
perhaps it was my prejudice but I got cold stares when greeting them with the
customary "bonsoir". Therefore when I returned from writing my blog post I
returned to my tent in the trail of two youths that went ahead of me to the
French guys. For the next hour there was arguing and profanity and shouting,
One of the youths managed the feat of making the French "urgh" sound like a
guttural roar in the back of his throat. I couldn't tell what it was about,
but assumed drugs. It reminded me of an episode of the [Trailer Park
Boys](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trailer_Park_Boys).

Finally it all dissipated and the two youths left the campsite having
seemingly got the upper hand and one of the French guys would continue to hurl
obscene profanities after them, and curiously something about catholics while his
friend (I assumed the more level-headed one and he had wished me
"bon-appetite" earlier and had had an earnest phone call with the campsite
proprietor concerning his mother) quietly tried to calm him. After that I had
a relatively good nights sleep.

In the morning it was cold, my thermals were warm, too warm even while my face
was cold. I got up and methodically threw my stuff progressively outside of
the tent before de-pegging and packing everything away.

I had it in mind to grab a good breakfast in the town and to visit the
computer shop to find an obsolete mini-USB cable for my MP3-player. It was
coming on to 9am but the computer shop was closed on Mondays (as are many
other commerces for some reason). I didn't find my ideal breakfast stop
either, instead I found a bakery and purchased a coffee, Pain-au-raisin and a
Pain-suisse, fortunately, and in contrast to Paris, these pastries are _enormous_.
There was no seating so I wheeled my bike down the street looking for a bench,
and then wheeled it down some more, and further still before finding a bench.
The bench was wet. Rather than wetting my bottom I used it to park the bike
and un-lovingly scoffed my pain-suisse, downed the coffeex and saved the
Pain-au-raisn for a better time.

It was quite cold, gloves and jacket weather. I started cycling into the
countryside and my toes were numb in my cycling shoes.

![Camera/IMG_20251006_092438_095.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510051807-coldmorning.jpg)
*Reasonably cold*

There are lots of Jesus in France, as in other parts of the Catholic world,
interestingly I chose to illustrate this with a cross that has no Jesus:

![Camera/IMG_20251006_092905_665.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510051807-jesus.jpg)
*No Jesus*

The landscape was also populated with wind turbines, which are not
particularly painful on the eye and preferable to smoke bellowing power
stations.

![Camera/IMG_20251006_100609_295.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510051807-windmills.jpg)
*Windmills*

I saw a flag flying which I didn't recognise immediately and there seeemed to
be a monument. On closer inspection it was a memorial to the Indian soldiers
that served in the British forces in World War 2. As I read they were "dropped into
France unprepared and un-equipped for the climate but served
valiantly":

![Camera/IMG_20251006_102144_387.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510051807-indian.jpg)
*Monument to the Indian soldiers that fought in WWII*

I found my self in a town, which seemed to offer plentiful commerces for my
various needs. I noticed that something was causing vibrations on the bike.
Was it the gears? Something stuck on the wheel? I inspected and couldn't find
anything. I rode on, and then, the unmistakeably sensation of rims on
concrete. I had a flat tire.


![Camera/IMG_20251006_113442_884.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510051807-castle.jpg)
*There was this*

I wheeled my bike up to a bench (*on the left in the picture above*) which was
conveniently close and sat down. I would have to remove the wheel and the tire
and fix the puncture in the inner tube. Easy enough? Well. The tire was
_firmly_ attached to the rim, I'm sure a bicycle person would say "turn the
tire upright, start at the valve, pinch and pull the tire all the way round to
create some slack and then pop it off". You don't even need tire levers. I've
seen bike people do this, but for the love of god I cannot do it. I had a
*single* tire lever and my Swiss army knife (what could go wrong?). I tried to
create some slack and then pinned the tire out with the bottle-opener whilst
trying to slide the tire lever around, slipping frequently and cracking my
fingers on the wheel causing some scratches and minor blooding. Finally I had
the tire off and took the inner tube out, put some air into it, rotated it in
front of my upper lip (I found that's the most sensitive place to detect the
air egress) and found the small hole. Repaired it. Then was the task of
getting the tire back _on_ which was just as tiresome and bloody as the
initial operation. Then there was the risk that I hadn't fixed it...
fortunately it was fine and I never have to worry about this happening ever again.

![Camera/IMG_20251006_113736_118.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510051807-puncture.jpg)
*Pain*

As I progressed to the east the buildings changed. From quaint French maisons,
chateaus and dilapidated fall-down barns there were red brick buildings, long
forgotten factories and dead towns. I had the feeling I was transitioning in
to Belgium and I was doing so via. the canal:

![Camera/IMG_20251006_125546_716.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510051807-canal.jpg)
*Canal*

![Camera/IMG_20251006_125920_497.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510051807-bigsign.jpg)
*Belgium ahead*

![Camera/IMG_20251006_155711_525.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510051807-industry.jpg)
*Red bricks and Old Industry*

After some days of riding I had an increasingly large mental list of things I
needed:

- Cream for my bum.
- Bike oil.
- A (what I've now learned is a) mini-USB cable (circa. 2006)
- Ear plugs.

I decided to write it all down on my phone, and also started putting down
keywords of the day "industrial", "chain", "empty", "belly", "bum".

When I did enter Belgium the only signifier is that the construction of the road changed.
Instead of smothe unending tarmac, the road was composed of distinct
rectangular sections. The signs when entering villages were also different
than in France (or in Spain).

![Camera/IMG_20251006_151315_887.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510051807-belgium.jpg)
*Different type of road*

Then there were cobbles (not exclusive to Belgium) as I rattled down them I
worried that my laptop wouldn't survive (it did):

![Camera/IMG_20251006_140532_465.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510051807-cobbles.jpg)
*Cobbles*

On my list was "bike oil". This is because my chain is not very healthy after
all the rain and the mud. The rear derailleur is squeaking and I had my first
derailment today and was careful not to try and pedal through and jam it more
than it already was, instead I hopped off and gripped the chain and gave it a
firm pull.

![Camera/IMG_20251006_161450_883.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510051807-street.jpg)
*Typical Belgium street (maybe)*

Once in Belgium I was promptly shifted onto a cycle way that had signposts for
Mons - 19 kilometers, 10, kilometers, 5 kilometers. At this point I start
considering the distances as distances I could run 21 kilometers? I could run
from there in 1h45m, 10? 45 minutes, 5k? If I went for it, 21 minutes. None of
these are realistic scenarios now however due to my knee injury.

I injured my knee when I feel over during a 5k race (Parkrun) a month ago. It
was a simple tumble and I quickly got up and finished the race without any
impairment, afterwards however the knee became swollen and it's prevented me
from running seriously ever since. My hope was that this ride would provide me
with a sufficent break from running. I'm not entirely confident that my
current exertions have a healing effect on the knee however. Although it is
not at-all painful, I'm aware of it. At the same time I'm starting to feel my
other knee. Time will tell. often these injuries evaporate for no apparent
reason.

![Camera/IMG_20251006_173324_102.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510051807-mons.jpg)
*Mons*

I'm staying in a surprisingly nice accommodation "Mons Dragon House" which I
found on `booking.com` - perhaps because they decided to upgrade me to
"Genius" status for a few days after not using their app for I maybe 10 years.
In anycase, it's managed by a private host but it's an _old_ (think 16th/17th
century) building with a dragon knocker and very interesting rooms. Perhaps
named after the [medieval Doudou
festival](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ducasse_de_Mons) When I arrived I let
myself in. The bike accommodation is not ideal, it's just left "in the hall"
and is visible as soon as you open the door which is accessible with a code.
That caused some concern before I reasoned "they must rotate the code" and
later realised that it was 3147. Or top right, top left, middle left, bottom
left. So, nope. It has never been changed. I just hope nobody takes the
opportunity to open the door and steal things (hopefully an unlikely
scenario).

The first thing I did was take a shower-bath. I call it that because there is
a bath in the room, and there is a shower in the bath. But there is no shower
curtain, so it was a case of sitting down in the bath and showering and it
felt fantastic. It's the relief of the warm water and the sensation of
relaxation after a day of exertion.

After this it was about 17:00 and I had time to go outside and find some of
the items on my list: a mini-usb cable for the MP3 player and some oil for the
bike. The first was tricky because this type of USB connector is obsolete, but
there was a "Cash Converters" store with lots of second hand technology and
luckily the guy was able to find one for me. The only challenge with the bike
oil was getting to the store before it closed, but I did it.

Tomorrow is another day in which the next stop is Liege and it's another 100
miles. I confess that this morning my legs had little energy and indeed they
are rather stiff right now. At the same time, despite the initial stiffness, I
had no troubles today. Which is impressive considering my sole sustenence was
two pastries and a few pieces of chocolate. But today I've eaten my pizza and
looking forward to tomorrow.
