--- 
title: "Day 1: Portsmouth to Saint-Arnoult"
categories: [mannheim2025]
date: 2025-10-03
draft: false
distance: 52
time: 3h25m
image: /images/mannheim2025/202510022018-beach.jpg
gpx: /gpx/mannheim2025/day1.gpx
#elapsed: 0h25m
---
It's 7:30am and I'm sitting in the ferry lounge looking out of the window onto
the port and the dawn drizzle. I was woken unhappily at 5:30am by my phone's
alarm. I stayed the night with a relative and would need to cycle several
miles including a ferry crossing to get to the international ferry port.

Having consumed crumpets and coffee I wheeled my bike out of the house,
realised it was raining, put on my rain jacket, stopped. Checked my passport
and money were on my person, carried on, rolled up my sleeves, started
cycling, my watch fell off my wrist onto the road with a clack, I rolled backt
to retrieve it. Realised I didn't have my lights, stopped, attached them,
carried on.

There are currently some disadvantages to the new bike setup, the old bike had
a dynamo hub and permanently mounted front and back lights. The other problem
I discovered is that I had no discrete place to stash my passport and bank
card.

I'm prone to lose things, on the old bike the handlebar bag had an inner
pocket - I could flip the lid open and verify my passport was safe in seconds.
I also had my wallet _chained_ to my pants. Now I have neither of those
things, instead I have a secutity pouch tied around my waist which is liable
to get wet. The handlebar bag is a bottomless pit into which I've grouped
items into several zip-sealed freezer bags.

The bike performed well over the seven mile journey to the ferry the only
slight concern I have is that the laptop in the handlebar bag causes the bag
to wobble back and forth. In theory the bag can handle 5KG and the laptop is
1.3KG but I'd prefer that it didn't move as much as it does, and not sure how
it would handle being offroad. If it were to break I'd be in some trouble as
there is nowhere else for it to live.

![Camera/IMG_20251003_063333_031.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510022018-portsmouth.jpg)
*Crossing on the ferry to Portsmouth at 6am*

As I arrived at the port and proceeded to ride in the wrong direction I saw
two other cyclists and decided to follow them instead. They were an american
couple celebrating their retirement by spending 10 months cycling around the
US and Europe. They had crossed on from the states on the [Queen Mary
2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Queen_Mary_2).

---

Now sitting in the tent uncomfortably typing this into the laptop. It's a 4
star campsite "alors, une persone, une nuit, ca fait" and she pulled out a
piece of paper and wrote down "€25". 25€ is a lot of money for a campsite, but
maybe there's a bar, maybe there's pizza. Nope, the best thing about this
campsite is that it's quiet. It's quiet because it's been raining most of the
day and it's October. I had intended to stay in a campsite further ahead, but
when "vous arive a quelle heur?"  "dans une heur, moins ou plus", "alors one
est ferme". They were closing the reception and I suggested paying in the
morning but I think she misunderstood me and I said thankyou and goodbye.

Of course, as a bikepacker I shouln't be staying in 4-etoile campsites, I
should be wild camping and that's shame that never leaves me.

When I left the ferry earlier in the day I said hello to the American cyclists
as we were collecting our bicycles "the road provides, if you lose your
glasses you'll find new ones" he proclaimed. I mentioned that I had forgotten
mine and would like the road to provide me with some, upon this he gifted me
some glasses. The road does indeed provide.


![Camera/IMG_20251003_155619_966.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510022018-shades.jpg)
*Rainbow shades*

They seemed like a nice couple and we said goodbye and I cycled out to wait
patientlly behind 20 cars at passport control. "where is your car?" the
passport officer asked me in mock seriousness, I said that I did not know
"colurageous, bon voyage". I hope that I'm not being corageous.

![Camera/IMG_20251003_155754_242.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510022018-ouistream2.jpg)
*Riding Ouistream*

I was heading east, in my mind I was possibly aiming to do 100k/66m today but
although I was going faster than usual time wasn't on my side as it was
already 15:45 by the time I was set loose in France.

![Camera/IMG_20251003_162456_227.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510022018-beach.jpg)
*Beach*

I wanted to find a campsitem ideally one with beer and pizza, but as you know
already the road did not provide. One recurring problem seems to be my rear
bag that has a tendancy to sag if not packed properly, so that it eventually
ends up rubbing on the wheels. Hopefully it's just a matter of putting
everything in correctly.

![Camera/IMG_20251003_162957_052.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510022018-sagging.jpg)
*Sag Bag*

My phone is mounted on my handlebars (or rather a raised extension bar on my
handlebar) next to my Garmin Edge cycle compouter. I initially used it to
navigate to the campsite, but I was dismayed at how fast the battery was
discharging (it turns out my laptop was on and it was tethered to it, which
was a problem I'd run into later). So I switched to using the Edge for
navigation and was pretty happy with it.

![Camera/IMG_20251003_172127_563.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510022018-offroad.jpg)
*Not for road bikes*

After I had been told I couldn't stay at the campsite I had chosen, I saw the
4-star a short distance ahead and decided to stay there. I pitched my tent and
walked around the place, half the toilets and showers were closed, there was
no restaurant and, well, no anything really. Fortunately there was a town a
few kilometers away and I cycled and got some beer and a baguette tradition.

![Camera/IMG_20251003_191822_825.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510022018-dinner.jpg)
*Beer and food*

And here I am, typing on my laptop in an awkward position and my back hurts.
Neither it not my phone have much charge left, but I've still got two
batteries and tomorrow I should make some good distance and have a better
choice of accommodations.

---

Incidentally my laptop isn't being very stable at the moment and probably
needs some poking, unfortunately the laptop screwdriver is another one of the
things on my "list of forgotten things" but at least I have cool sunglasses
now.
