--- 
title: "Day 2: Saint-Arnoult to Gorunay-en-Bray"
categories: [mannheim2025]
date: 2025-10-04
draft: false
distance: 179
time: 8h8m
elapsed: 9h53m
image: /images/mannheim2025/202510031824-rainbow.jpg
gpx: /gpx/mannheim2025/day2.gpx
---
I'm now shoveling chocolate into my mouth while typing this and about to open
a beer. I've already been to a Bistro for a couple of beers and a large "Pizza
Anglaise" and today has been a good long day.

Unsurprisingly I didn't sleep well at the campsite, firstly as I was dozing at
21:00 the entire tent was illuminated with a blinding light. I was startled
and assumed the light was from some car headlights and paid no attention to
it, until, 5 minutes later, it was still there. I poked my head under the tent
flaps and saw that half the campsite had been lit up like a prison break.

![Camera/IMG_20251003_210721_932.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510031824-stadiumlight.jpg)
*Prisoner one has escaped, let loose the dogs*

Not knowing how long these lights would be on (they were off at 4am) I
embarked on the un-tenting procedure, pulling up the pegs, and carried the
everything about 5 pitches down where the effect of the lights was
sufficiently diminished.

I then dozed to sleep, but was woken by the flapping of my tent caused by
regular strong gusts of wind. I tried to ignore it (as I try to ignore
everything in the tent - cold, noise, needing-to-pee) but it was futile (as
always). I decided to investigate and tighten everything up. I'm glad I did as
I don't think I put the same amoubt of effort into pitching the tent as I
normally would. The rain came about an hour later, heavy and continuous and if
I hadn't "fixed" the tent I would have been wet.

At around 5am I was woken by the cold. Again, I tried to ignore it until I
couldn't ignore it anymore and had to exit my sleeping bag and find my
thermals, at 7am I could have gotten up, but I refused. It was 9:30am by the
time I left the 4-star campsite at which time I brief downpour provided the
flavor of the day.

![Camera/IMG_20251004_100721_083.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510031824-morning.jpg)
*The Morning*

I was heading to the city of Rouen. There is an Auberge de Jeunesse (youth
hostel) there. Rouen was about 100 kilometers (62 miles) away. On my old
touring bicycle that would have been a days work, but now I would have been
there a few hours before 5 and would have been waiting about. With this in
mind I deferred my decision until lunchtime.

The weather forecast was pretty terrible, but in the course of the day there
was one soaking and various short downpours, but most of the time it wasn't
raining, and it was sunny for a good portion of the day.

![Camera/IMG_20251004_102229_204.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510031824-barn.jpg)
*Lots of dilapidated barns like this one*

In addition to rain there was _wind_. There was a lot of wind, fortunately it
was blowing from the west, and I was heading east. On the few occasions were I
was cycling to the west I was shown my advantage, it was a _horrendous_.

There were glorious straight, flat, roads running east through the beautiful
countryside and the wind was directly behind me. I was easily able to obtain
40kmph (24mpg) and sometimes 50kmph.

![Camera/IMG_20251004_173121_136.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510031824-telegraph.jpg)
*The cables being blown to the left*

The bike - the humming of the tyres on the tarmac. It handles wonderfully, not only
compared to my tank-like touring bike, but even to my road bike. I feel
safer cornering on the bigger tires when descending a hill at speed and the
disk brakes (in comparison to the rim-brakes on the tourer) are noticeably better.

![Camera/IMG_20251004_130703_842.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510031824-church.jpg)
*Church*

Before I started the ride I was frustrated by the Garmin Edge. I wanted it to
navigate me to Rouen, but it wasn't clear how. Finally I created a "course" on
my phone and transferred it to the Edge.

The auto-mapping is good in that it's based on _popularity_ and so is much
more likely to be a good cycling route. It's bad in that when it takes me on a
detour I have to try and imagine _why_. Why does it make me cycle 10k or more
when there is clearly a minor road leading directly to it.

In all, I cycled more than I would have otherwise done, but almost the entire
route was on quiet roads and there were some "gravel" sections thrown in.

![Camera/IMG_20251004_145035_129.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510031824-gravel.jpg)
*Forest track*

It took me down some forestry tracks on the way to Rouen.

![Camera/IMG_20251004_150742_684.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510031824-gravel2.jpg)
*Paved forest track*

Rouen was a standard city cycle-through. The forestry tracks led to the
periphery, and as I neared the end I saw "les gens" - up until then there had
not been a solitary person on the track, now there were several figures up
ahead. I was heading towards the city. As with all cities the people and
traffic become more numerous and more hectic the further you penetrate.

The city presented itself well however, there were cycle lanes everywhere and
it was clean and modern - it's also where Jeanne d'Arc spent her final
moments.

![Camera/IMG_20251004_155638_786.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510031824-rouen.jpg)
*Rouen - probably something important*

![Camera/IMG_20251004_160023_610.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510031824-ruen2.jpg)
*Looking towards something that surely has a name*

But I had decided not to stop at Rouen. Many many miles previously I had
stopped for lunch. From the bakery I had a large "sandwich" with cheese, eggs,
mayonnaise and salad. It had just stopped raining and I was dripping wet as I
ate it and considered my next moves.

Due the to wind I as making _very_ good time, the city after Rouen was Amiens
but that was too far. Between Rouen and Amiens was a small town called
Gournay-en-Bray and (after checking the prices) I booked a hotel.

It was only after doing this that I generated the route and saw that it was
130k away, which would take me over 100 miles and make this my longest cycle
ride in a decade.

![Camera/IMG_20251004_165241_916.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510031824-church2.jpg)
*It's another church*

![Camera/IMG_20251004_173700_514.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510031824-rainbow.jpg)
*Rainbow*

As the day drew on I felt fine, I was well fed, but for the last 10k I was
running on fumes - mainly because I had not eaten for a few hours. As darkness
begain to close in I was counting the meters to the hotel.

![Camera/IMG_20251004_183515_137.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510031824-view.jpg)
*Nice views*

It started pissing it down for the last 15 minutes and it was starting to get
cold. When I showered I couldn't feel my toes.

![Camera/IMG_20251004_200847_127.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510031824-pizza.jpg)
*Pizza*

I'm now feeling somewhat bloated and have signed up for the breakfast
tomorrow. While I was eating my pizza I did some planning. Taking a direct
route I could be in Cologne in 300 miles - the wind is blowing from the west
mostly, so I could probably manage 100 miles a day, but I would have 1 day to
spare (I need to be in Cologne on Thursday). There is also an _indirect_ route
which follows the "popular" routes, this is 60 miles more and I'm sure it
would be more interesting.

Tomorrow the weather should be dry and the town of Preonne is about 100 miles
away, there's a campsite.
