--- 
title: "Day 16: Weymouth"
categories: [mannheim2025]
date: 2025-10-18
distance: 135
time: 6h24m
draft: false
image: /images/mannheim2025/202510172339-dwarfs.jpg
gpx: /gpx/mannheim2025/day16.gpx
---
This morning I woke early and said hello to my cousin with whom I was staying.
I had decided both to do the 5k Parkrun in Lee-on-Solent and to cycle back to
Weymouth. The apparent 80 mile distance would be a relatively "small" day
compared with previous rides and the weather looked good enough.

I ran the Parkrun in my barefoot shoes, significantly slower than if I had my
usual trainers, but I managed to speed up progressively as I became more
confident with the running style - normally I strike the ground with my heel,
but with barefoot shoes you tend to get better results by landing flat on your
foot and pushing your self forwards. At the end my calf muscles were _very_
tender and I was unable run all the way back to the house.

I planned my course on Garmin Connect, starting from Lee-On-Solent, and for
once I selected what I thought was "use roads" as I didn't want any offroad
surprises today. It turned out I made an error which almost immediately caused
me problems.

Shortly after leaving Lee-on-solent the navigation told me to go onto a barely
visible overgrown trail, not wanting to question the computer, I followed it
willingly. There were brambles which I brushed aside, then there were more
brambles, then there was a corridor of hanging brambles that reminded me of
the computer game "Half-Life" whereby the vines would pull you up to a pair of
toothy-jaws. In this case they only clung to my clothing and my bike and
actually prevented me fromm continuing without unpicking them slowly from
myself, my tent and my bike. I needed a machete.

![Camera/IMG_20251018_105648_501.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510172339-badtrail.jpg)
*This is where things went wrong*

The front tire was now absolutely flat. I checked the distance left on the
trail: 300 meters. It didn't get much easier but there was no point in turning
back and I pushed my bike from behind under fallen trees and navigated
blankets of stingy-nettles until finally emerging onto the a road.

![Camera/IMG_20251018_110053_731.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510172339-vines.jpg)
*Half-Life Vines*

I pulled my bike up on the siding and took the wheel off and whipped my tire
lever out and my bottle opener and proceeded to remove the tire, it didn't
come easily. I then inflated the inner tube and started passing it over my
upper lip to locate the leak. The fact that it was windy and I had 2 weeks of
facial hair growth on my lip didn't help. I found a _tiny_ puncture, which
couldn't have been the reason the tire deflated so quickly. It was so small I
had difficulty finding it again, then I found the main puncture and fixed them
both.

![Camera/IMG_20251018_113050_807.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510172339-puncture.jpg)
*Repair 1*


I got the wheel back on, cycled down the road. Felt the tire - it had deflated - or had it? Maybe, I hoped, it had just "found more space". I was in denial.
When I checked it again 10 minutes later it was not deniable any more, it
was still going down. Finding a bench I sat down and the tire was harder to
get off than before and I found another hole and I bloodied my hand and
patched it and I put it back on and I rode on and 10 kilometers later, again,
it was going down.

Staying calm in the face of adversity I grunted several explitives and found
another bench and this time it would be a replacement. I replaced the inner
tube.

![Camera/IMG_20251018_131202_094.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510172339-puncture2.jpg)
*Replacing the inner tube*

![Camera/IMG_20251018_141551_352.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510172339-beauty.jpg)
*Beautiful Southampton*

In contrast to all the previous rides I made routes for, this one featured
_very_ busy roads. "There roads are so busy" I thought to myself "maybe it's
just Southampton being shit" I thought, but I saw the road turn off onto a
B-Road and into the beautiful New Forest a few kilometers ahead.

![Camera/IMG_20251018_151859_116.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510172339-heath.jpg)
*Heath*

This was very welcome. The quiet lanes and the heath and forest and the
[ponies](https://www.thenewforest.co.uk/explore/wildlife-and-nature/ponies/).
So many ponies roaming freely which is something I've never seen anywhere else.

![Camera/IMG_20251018_151107_163.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510172339-dwarfs.jpg)
*Ponies*

Before turning off I had felt my tire and my heart sunk when I realised it had
deflated _again_ even with a new inner tube. The tire, I thought, the tire
must have thorn(s) embedded in it in such a way that I couldn't see or feel
them.

![Camera/IMG_20251018_145150_002.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510172339-horses.jpg)
*Horses*


After stopping to pee, I stalked up to a group of ponies to take a photo. I
needn't have as they clearly didn't care that I was there. I checked my tire
again - it was "fine". Perhaps not pressurised to the same degree, but it
hadn't actually gone down. I was safe for the time being. Which is good,
becuase if it _had_ gone down I would have to get the train back, and
Borunemouth train station was 25 miles away.

![Camera/IMG_20251018_153137_859.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510172339-hello.jpg)
*Hello*

A cyclist pulled up beside me "going far" he asked. I said I was going to
home to Weymouth and breiefly described my tour "and you?" "to Ringwood" he
said "to see relatives, my legs are aching". We chatted for a bit and he said
"I must go ahead, good luck". He did go ahead, but not significantly. In fact,
I was cycling faster than he was so after drafting him for some time I
overtook "you can can slipstream!" I said, but I left him behind.

After the New Forest I found myself again on a busy road, and then a
busy dual-carridgeway and I suspected something was wrong with the routing. I
tried to find another way and ended up in a car park and ahead of me, was a
bike shop. It was about 16:00 and they were open.

I wheeled the bike in, an old man looked up "do you need help?" he asked
welcomingly "no" I said "just supplies". I asked for an inner tube and some
tire patches "you've got your summer kit on" he said "yeah, erm, I ..." didn't
really know what to say to that at the moment. I did have my summer kit, but
it was my winter kit too, and anyway, it wasn't that cold. "you staying out
tonight?" a younger guy asked "no, heading back to home to Weymouth, last day"
I said before I left he came over and shoved a bag of Jelly Babies into my
hand which made my day.

I left the bike shop and rejoined my route, which took me to the busy road and
then to another busy road and then I checked and it was "busy road for about
20 miles" and I thought fuck this. I stopped the route and calculated a new
one on Strava. It was about 10 miles further but the probablity of death was
lower so I thought it a good compromise.

Within **5 minutes** I was on the [Castleway
Trail](https://www.dorsetcouncil.gov.uk/w/castleman-trailway). It was a gravel
trail with runners, walkers and cyclists. It was a huge relief and it seemed
to be never ending.

![Camera/IMG_20251018_163109_464.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510172339-castleman.jpg)

The Strava route took me off-trail too, across open fields and at one point to
a very narrow bridge.  I mounted my bike, there was barely enough room to
stand next to it, so I attempted to mount it and _SLIP_ the wheel fell through
the gap between the planks. It took me a moment to realise what had happened,
and some effort to pull the bike out of the bridge and I then wheeled it
carefully over the middle plank, a family were waiting for me to cross on the
other side "alright" I said with a nod and carried on.

![Camera/IMG_20251018_170142_896.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510172339-thebridge.jpg)
*The Bridge*

Gradually the light began to fade. I knew I wouold need my lights. I also knew
that my front light hadn't been charged since leaving - I'd need to charge it
before nightfall I thought. At about 17:00 I actioned this and immediately
realised that I didn't have a micro-USB cable. I had a mini-USB cable, a
Garmin charging cable, and a USB-C cable. But nothing that could charge my
light. I'd have to be resourceful and hope it lasted.

![Camera/IMG_20251018_165430_685.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510172339-openroad.jpg)
*Cross Country*

Now I had 40 kilometers left. It occured to me to check the remaing ascent. I
had done 500m, I had 1000m to go. Wait. What? 1000m in 40k? I checked the
route. Holy fuck. The route ran along the south-west coast path. I run this
path ocassionally and it is _not_ something you cycle, especailly with a
loaded gravel bike, and double-especially when you just want to get home.

![Camera/IMG_20251018_163515_235.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510172339-uddens.jpg)
*Uddens*

At this point I was closing in on Wareham and familiar territory. I calculated
a new route. From Wool I'd know the way, but from Wareham I wasn't so sure.
Night was closing in and the new route took me to a gate and an open field and
_nope_. I decided to just head home as fast as possible and follow the main
road.

THe main road (A352) is the most direct route and it wasn't that busy,
although it was soon pitch dark and it started to rain and the LED on my front
light had turned from green to red indicating that the battery was liable to
run out. 14 miles to Weymouth. I recited my poems. "I'd be a good voice actor"
I thought. My voice was gruff and I imagined I could be a knight in Game of
Thrones "... and sail beyond the beds of all the western stars until I die". I
was reciting the poems out loud. It was just the dark, the road, the rain and
the occasional car speeding past me.

Finally I made it to Osmington and the street lamps and then the Weymouth
Esplanade which I've run up and down countless times.

![Camera/IMG_20251018_193344_627.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510172339-weymouth.jpg)
*The lights of Weymouth*

That's the end.
