--- 
title: "Day 8: Mannheim"
categories: [mannheim2025]
date: 2025-10-10
draft: false
image: /images/mannheim2025/202510092159-shoes.jpg
---
> **Disclaimer**: There was no significant cycling today

Ear plugs in I woke multiple times in the A&O hostel deciding to stay in bed
just a little longer and getting up at around 8am. I was interestred in
Breakfast and ventured to the below-ground breakfast area and checked the
price -- 12€ per person -- no! I thought, that is far too expensive, I'll go
and find a bakery. I walked out of the hotel, to the bakery, and got a coffee
for €4.00 and a chocolate croissant for €3.50 - so **cheaper yes**, and _all that I
needed_, **also yes**. So win? I wasn't sure.

The next task was to decide on my plan of action. I had to go to Mannheim
today as I have a hotel booked there and there is a social in the evening.
Dusseldorf is ~280km from Mannheim, so I  was getting the train, but which
train? There were various trains, taking 3 regional trains would cost €49
and take 4 hours whereas taking an ICE train would cost up to €160 and take 2
hours. I had spent some time on this problem the previous night. I had to also
take into account the check-in time for the hotel, and whether I coudl plugin
my laptop and do some work while on the train and offset the cost.

With an hour to spare I purchased the ticket and picked out my bike from the
cellar and returned the key to the reception and navigated over the crazy-busy
traffic of Mannheim to the train station, wheeled my bike through the masses
of people (so many people, it could be Paris or London) and up to the platform
before checking my ticket to determine where my bike would be put. Looking at
the ticket, and looking again, and again, and once more. There was no mention
of Fahrad on the ticket. The train was originally due in about 10 minutes, but
it was delayed. "Fuck" I said out loud "Fuckety fuck" I said again and picked
up my bike and adventured down the stairs to find the ticket office.

I wasn't hopeful. My expectation was a queue of 50 people waiting to buy a
ticket, despite the huge crowds I was able to imediately speak to a somebody
(triage?) and get a ticket. Within the next 5 minnutes I spoke to a wonderful
lady with tatoos on her fingers who said "I don't know what to do", "I can't
add a bike reservataion", (what should I do, I asked?) "I don't know" and then
OK, you go on the high speed train and pay €14 for the bike. I said she was
wonderful and my train left ten minutes from then.

On the train I was able to do some work and offset the cost of the ticket
although the highspeed train was _fast_ and I didn't have time to finish what
I started. Nobody checked my train ticket. I arrived in Mannhiem.

![Camera/IMG_20251010_110452_066.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510092159-cathedral.jpg)
*I passed the famous cathedral in Cologne*

Mannhiem seemed like another large city. The road from the train station had
four lanes of traffic and my hotel was (after I sat down and figure it out)
was about 1km up the road on the left. I pursued my riding the bike up the
pavement befre it became impactical due to the mass of people on the sidewalk
and then hopped off and pushed it rather than cross the road. I had time to
kill, but when I arrived 2 hours early at the hotel the room was ready and I
was able to take my bike in the lift up to the 3rd floor and park it at the
bottom of the bed in am actually very nice appartment.

I could now either finisht the work I started on the train, or more
importanly, find some new shoes. I did some googling. The primary feature of
new shoes would be compactibility (i.e. can I carry them on the bike). They
had to have "zero-drop" and "barefoot shoes mannheimwas the keyword of the day
and there was a shop just 500m from the hotel.

The lady was either closing or opening the store when I arrived, she seemed a
bit scatty "Ich suche Schuhe" said I "you understand these are barefoot
shoes, they are not normal shoes" "yes I understand" I said. I'm a serious
shoe seeker. The conversation soon turned to broken English because my German
was horrendous.

When I removed my shoe to try them on I regretted that I had no clean socks,
as the odur was noticable - but it turns out I had a huge clod of dog-shit in
my cycling cleats that I didn't find until later in the day. "Stand up on your
toes and reach up to the ceiling" she said "oh, I can see you are in very good
condition"  she said, and I thought to myself "yes, I am in good condition
aren't I, how perceptive of you" and was primed to buy shoes that were more expensive
than I had intended.

When I got back to the appartment I changed and went for a run. I ran on the
street, my feet feeling the texture of the pavement though the thin soles of
the shoes and the _clunk clunk clunk_ of the force of my bones hitting the
street unimpeded by the cushioning of trainers.

![Camera/IMG_20251010_145836_273.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510092159-shoes.jpg)
*The new shoes*

When I switched to the grass and earth track by the side of the river Rein it
was easier and I had a good 4 mile run, although my knee was starting to becme
painful towards the end of it. When I stopped my calfs were noticably strained
and after napping for an hour or two and going out for lunch I had trouble
walking. But that all seems to have cleared up now. I think it's just a matter
of adjustment.

![Camera/IMG_20251010_150312_221.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510092159-tv.jpg)
*TV tower here also*

At seven I went to the Irish bar for the pre-conference social, I was surprised
to see Dave from Bristol who had flown in today. It's a small conference with
perhaps 100 people, although I think Dave and I are the only attendees from
the UK.

Tomorrow is the conference day - the ostensible reason for this trip - it
should be fun and on Sunday I'll find myself in Germany with no further aims
(perhaps I need to consider returning to the UK).
