--- 
title: "Day 12: Reims"
categories: [mannheim2025]
date: 2025-10-14
distance: 154
time: 7h36m
draft: false
image: /images/mannheim2025/202510132016-selfie.jpg
gpx: /gpx/mannheim2025/day12.gpx
aliases:
  - /blog/2025/10/14/day-12-riems/
---

I'm not in Reims. Reims is pronounced "rance" with a french "urghhh", so
"rurghance". There is no "m". It's not "reems" or "rhymes", it's "rance". I'm
not in Reims because I booked an F1 hotel which is 5k from the center and in
the commercial commune "Tinqueux". It was my intention to stay in Reims. "To
see the cathedral and eat a pizza" I thought. As it is I'm in Tinquex. At
least I'm in a Pizzeria.

Now I need to try and remember where I was this morning... I was in Vedun. I
was staying in a private bedroom in the house of a retired couple with whom I
shared the bathroom. I managed not to [pee on the floor](https://www.dantleech.com/blog/2023/08/18/day-6-pors-peron/) this time. But I was
concerned with walking out half-naked and giving either of them a heart
attack. The old man watched football enthusiastically until I turned my light
off. In the morning I was pleasantly welcome by the sound of my breakfast
being prepared. I woke, went to the bathroom, said "bonjour" to my hosts, who
seemed entirely habituated to having guests in the house. It was a good
breakfast with bread, home-made jam, cheese,
"[Madelines](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Madeleine_(cake))" (fluffy sponge
cakes wrapped in plastic which I don't touch) and half a baguette. "En
forme[^enforme]?"
(feeling strong?) the lady I asked me, "je ne sais pas" I said, "j'espere" (I
hope). I did feel good. I had eaten well the night before and the breakfast
wasn't insubstantial.

Before leaving I booked my hotel in [Reims](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reims) being sold on the price of Â£34
without checking the location. The financial aspect of the trip is starting to
play on my mind a little. I'm self-employed so it's not only staying in hotels
almost every night but also the opportunity cost of not working for two
weeks. So trying to keep the budget down as much as possible without actually,
you know, wild camping.

Leaving Verdun I passed the fortress, outside of which was a display wall that
had letters written by French soldiers, often to their mothers, before they
were sent out to die. Verdun was the longest battle in WW1 and hundreds of
thousands of soldiers died as marked by a very large cemetery I saw as I
climbed out of the town.

![Camera/IMG_20251014_090639_060.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510132016-poemwall.jpg)
*War letter*

![Camera/IMG_20251014_090907_008.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510132016-verdunfort.jpg)
*Fortress with authentic statues*

![Camera/IMG_20251014_091910_862.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510132016-graves.jpg)
*Large war cemetery*

The first part of the day was marked with some climbs. "I'm feeling strong" I
thought "I'm on-form". I passed some more forts, the area surrounding the road
was military and it was an offense to trespass. I passed another tumbled down
and over-grown fort.

![Camera/IMG_20251014_093011_286.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510132016-derelict.jpg)
*Do not enter this fort*

After the hills I was mostly descending and wonderful open roads until I reached the canal.

![Camera/IMG_20251014_121705_709.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510132016-longopenroad.jpg)
*Long and open road*

I was not taking the most direct route to Reims. The most direct route would
have been 100k or less. Garmin was taking me on a scenic route, the most
direct route would not have included the canal. The best thing about the
Gravel bike is that I can easily cover 100k (the minimum respectable distance)
and have the freedom to take the scenic routes and still finish my day at
around 17:00.

I needed to poop. I had pooped this morning, but as I left I already realised
that I hadn't pooped sufficiently. I would not poop for a further 6 hours and
then it was much needed and to much relief.

Whilst needing to poop I stopped for lunch in a park. I had already purchased
a pain-au-rasin. I didn't feel particularly hungry, and I had managed to
reduce my kilometrage to 100k before lunchtime. The sun was beginning to
shine. I sat down in the park and decided to try and fix my squeaking
drive-chain.

Something, or multiple things, was or were squeaking as I was riding and as I
changed gears. I turned the pedals and could hear the squeaking so I greased
this, and then that, until the squeaking stopped and removed the dirt from the
derailleur. When I started cycling again it was still squeaking.

![Camera/IMG_20251014_123409_517.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510132016-village.jpg)
*Village*

At this point I entered a **village** called L'Epine and was astonished to see
what appeared to be a
[cathedral](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Notre-Dame_de_l%27%C3%89pine). It
was a church constructed (according to wikipedia) between 1405-1527 (i.e.
construction took 122 years) due to the site being the destination of a
pilgrimage.

![Camera/IMG_20251014_131217_703.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510132016-lepine.jpg)
*[Notre-Dame de l'Epine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Notre-Dame_de_l%27%C3%89pine)*

The "[Canal Lateral a la
Marne](https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Canal_lat%C3%A9ral_%C3%A0_la_Marne) was
genuinely beautiful. The autumn trees bowed over the canal path and the sun
was shining and the colours were vibrant.

![Camera/IMG_20251014_134608_084.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510132016-canal1.jpg)
*Canal 1*

![Camera/IMG_20251014_135308_161.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510132016-canal2.jpg)
*Canal 2*

![Camera/IMG_20251014_141631_379.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510132016-canal3.jpg)
*Canal 3*

![Camera/IMG_20251014_141640_182.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510132016-canal4.jpg)
*Canal 4*

![Camera/IMG_20251014_142206_177.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510132016-canal5.jpg)
*Canal 5*

![Camera/IMG_20251014_143123_132.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510132016-canal6.jpg)
*Canal 6*

I was so pleased to see the sun that I took a selfie:

![Camera/IMG_20251014_144805_461.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510132016-selfie.jpg)
*Me*

After the canal I would climb north to Reims. I was only aware that it would
be hilly. My computer indicated that there were 15 climbs today, and I had
only achieved 7 of them. The last 34 kilometers would contain the rest.

Upon reaching the top of a hill I was astonished by the view, the photo
doesn't do it much justice. Patchwork fields, and grape vines and distant
villages on hills. I was now in Champagne land, where all the Champagne in the
world is [made](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Champagne).

![Camera/IMG_20251014_151253_602.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510132016-view.jpg)
*Distance village*

![Camera/IMG_20251014_160903_796.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510132016-view2.jpg)
*Not sure about this one, probably looked better in real life*

![Camera/IMG_20251014_162801_924.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510132016-champagne.jpg)
*Fields of champagne*

The last climbs took it out of me however. My legs had no beans, everytime I
put in an effort it would fade away within 10 seconds and I crawled up the
frequent climbs looking forward to visiting the cathedral and eating pizza. My
bum was distinctly uncomfortable.

As I approached the top of climb 15/15 I decided to check where my hotel was
an was a bit pissed. I knew _exactly_ what type of hotel it was now. It was 5k
from the center and I knew there would be more cars than pedestrians in that
suburb.

I won't see the cathedral this time, but more importantly I found a pizzeria,
unfortunately it wasn't the best pizzeria and not the worst. The beer was pretty good.

![Camera/IMG_20251014_193059_051.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510132016-pizza.jpg)

Tomorrow the most obvious destination is Beauvais - which is a town I've
already visited on this tour and so I'd now be, more or less, going back on my
outward route. All in all it's about 260 miles to the ferry at Caen/Ouistream.
Which is 3 days, which would mean getting there on Friday at some time or
other, probably sailing to Portsmouth that day or overnight, I'd then be in
Portsmouth on Saturday and the Great South Run (which I probably won't be able
to finish due to knee) is the very next day - and if I don't make it home I'll
be running it in my bare-foot shoes.

---

[^enforme]: this is what the French say habitually to anybody about to partake in a sporting challenge - "en forme?" - "are you fit?"







