--- 
title: "Day 11: Verdun"
categories: [mannheim2025]
date: 2025-10-13
distance: 181
time: 8h42m
draft: false
image: /images/mannheim2025/202510121900-roadtoverdun.jpg
gpx: /gpx/mannheim2025/day11.gpx
---
Now sitting outside at a Pizzeria in Verdun, it's quiet and I hhave a strong
IPA beer, the pizzeria doesn't serve beer but I was adivsed to grab one from
the bar next door, it's slightly cold. I'm staying with at a bed-and-breakfast
for about €40 which is pretty reasonable. Today was a long day and my back
hurts slightly, the laptop has 13% charge due, I think, to it being on. But
the laptop at least survived the trauma that was inflicted on it a few hours
ago.

I rolled out of bed at around 7am and started transferring my stuff across the
room as I changed for breakfast. The breakfast was €14 and in retrospect I
should've eaten more than I did, I did at least manage to steal a bannana for
later. I returned to the room, packed the bike badly, and wheeled out and
rather than take the elevator I carried it down two flights of stairs and said
handed my key to the lady at reception "Danke" she said coldly. "Ciao" I said
"Danke" she said again coldly. A stark difference to the chatty guy behind the
desk when I arrived.

I hadn't booked my accomodation yet, there was still a chance my friend, whose
last known location was Metz, seven years ago, would reply to my email, but I
had scouted for a location _around_ 100 miles away, and the location was
Verdun. It jumped out at me as it connected in my mind to one of the wars, and
I thought it might be interesting.

![Camera/IMG_20251013_085132_110.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510121900-171.jpg)
*171k to go, the total would be 180*

_As I'm writing this post the table is moving as I'm trying to eat my pizza and
drink my beer and write the blog post all at the same time_

I followed (or the Garmin directed me) along the canal on the way west, not
for the first time there were works happening on the cycle path and I was sent
on an "Unleitung" while the Garmin continuously recalculated the course -
which it was actually incapable of doing because I was in Germany and I didn't
have the German map, so it was continuously beeping and calculating and
burning the battery. I still haven't found out _exactly_ how to **stop** it
navigating. There is a menu, and I have seen it, I've done it, but I have no
idea how to access it. For all the good things about the computer, the user
interface sometimes leaves something to be desired.

![Camera/IMG_20251013_085135_271.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510121900-canal1.jpg)
*Canal*

I noticed that I had a strap flapping about in my wheel. I stopped to inspect
it and it was the strap that would have been holding my dry bag to the fork.
It had slipped off due to the irregular shape of my camping stove and my
sleeping bag and mat stacked on top of it. I also noticed that the strap was
coming apart.

![Camera/IMG_20251013_085707_416.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510121900-strap.jpg)
*Damaged strap after re-attaching*

The sun came out breifly in the morning, but subsequently heavey clouds lined
the sky while never threatening rain. It was good weather for cycling and
today I only consumed maybe about 1.25 literes of water in over 8 hours of
riding.

![Camera/IMG_20251013_093419_459.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510121900-sun.jpg)
*Here comes the sun (soon obscured by clouds)*

![Camera/IMG_20251013_091122_163.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510121900-metal.jpg)
*Metal*

The distance from Saarbruken to France was about 50k on my route, I knew when
I had crossed the border because my Garmin suddenly came alive again and
started giving me directions and showing features on the map. The thing I
missed most was "distance to next waypoint" becuase if you see 1k, 5k or 20k
you can just switch off and follow the road for some time rather than
continuously checking **the line** every ten seconds (to be fair, even wit
the line, it beeps loudly if you deviate from the course reducing the risk of
going too far wrong).

![Camera/IMG_20251013_100052_463.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510121900-fort.jpg)
*Fort*

I had another lunchtime crisis. I had done about 60k, but still had 120k to
go and I was feeling weak and 12:00 had gone and it was almost 13:00 and there
were no bakeries in sight. Ideally I'm looking for a bakery that will make
sandwiches, but I'd settle for an oversized pain-au-raisin with icing on the
top. I eventually found a supermarket, which isn't the instant-solution it
would've been with the touring bike. I don't want to buy _ingredeients_ for a
sandwich, I have nowhere to stop them, I also can't _buy_ a sandwich because
they all have meat. My best effort was to buy two donuts a bar of chocolate
and bannana (a new one, as I had eaten the other in desperation some 30
minutes earlier and had decided that a bannana was a good thing to have).


![Camera/IMG_20251013_130500_514.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510121900-sncf.jpg)
*There was a queue of about 30 cyclists on the other side of this obstruction,
I waited for 5 minutes*

While eating lunch I rearranged my bike which, as I mentioned, had been badly
packed. I re-packed the rear bag which was starting to sag and removed the
damaged strap from the dry bag on the front and replaced it with my _only_
spare strap. One of several "Der Austeiger" straps I had bought from the
self-named outdoor shop in Berlin years ago. It seems much better. I wish I
had brought more of them.

![Camera/IMG_20251013_111928_373.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510121900-longwinding.jpg)
*Long and winding roads*

![Camera/IMG_20251013_131504_119.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510121900-lunch.jpg)
*Lunch of Kings*

At lunch I booked my accomodation. I had downloaded AirBnb the day before but
the best offer was on booking.com and as previously mentioned it was a bedroom
in the host's house with a shared bathroom. It has "excellent" reviews so I
thought I'd try it. Some hours later I wondered if I would make it there
before the 20:00 cut-off time. It still had about 90k to go - which would be
about 4 hours at a normal pace but I could see, because the computer tells me,
that I had 5 of 7 climbs still to go and 750m of elevation and it didn't tell
me how much would be offroad.

![Camera/IMG_20251013_112730_500.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510121900-road.jpg)
*More road*

My bum hurts today, not in a terrible way, but it's certainly sore. I put
cream on before setting out, but didn't use any for the 80 miles yesterday.

![Camera/IMG_20251013_113108_866.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510121900-lambda.jpg)
*With a view*

I eventually passed a bakery "Pauls" which is a chain common throughout France
I think. "Est-ce que tu peu fais une sandwich" I equired to the young guy. I still had a long
way to go and didn't want to run out of food again. He indicated that all the
sandwiches were over "here" and upon my enquiry the only vegetarian one was
camembere and walnuts. I agreed that it was the only vegetarian one and
purchased it asking him to cut it in half. A few hours later I ate it, it was
simply some bread with camembere and walnuts, nothing like the tasty and more
filling sandwiches I had desired. But it was enough.

![Camera/IMG_20251013_153633_851.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510121900-lunch2.jpg)
*Lunch 2 - 3 hours to go*

The scenery was fantastic although not breath-taking. Garmin delivered
abuot 5k of actual offroad today. My laptop has been bouncing around in my handlebar
bag for the entire trip, and when I see the bag rolling back and forth I
wonder if it will be the laptop or the bag that will break first.

![Camera/IMG_20251013_162843_260.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510121900-gravel.jpg)
*Gravel*

![Camera/IMG_20251013_163203_189.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510121900-field.jpg)
*No-road*

In the event it was slightly more complex. As I was heading into Verdun I had
climbed the final climb (which I knew was coming and was the steppest of the
day). Having reached that it took me down a dirt-track which eventually led
to Vedun. I stopped to look at a single monument to a French commander that
died "at his post, gloriously, for the land" in 1916. Then continued down the
dirt track looking for other artifacts of WW1. I was speeding down, the bag was
rattling, I saw a pot-hole and thought "that won't end well" before diving
into it, the bike bounced out and I was in full control but the handlebar bag
had lept out of it's bracket and hit the wheel and somehow got entangled in
it, spinning round I abrubtply stopped.

![Camera/IMG_20251013_182134_134.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510121900-monument.jpg)
*Monument*

![Camera/IMG_20251013_181950_854.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510121900-roadtoverdun.jpg)
*Road to Verdun and Pot-holes*

I stopped to inspect the situation. One of the straps had conveniently
attached itself to a spoke. But it looked fine, I tried to push it back on to
the bracket, but it wouldn't stay there. I had wrapped the carrying strap
around my raised handlebar-extension, and when the bag fell into the wheel it
_ripped_ the strap off the bag which pulled the extension downwards
onto the lock button holding it in place... so the sitation was fixed by
simply raising the bars and the bag clipped back into place. It was only later
that I realised that the strap loop-holes had been violently broken off on
both sides, which forced me to improvise a new way to carry it (it's basically
my day-bag). I'm not sure how the bag became unlocked in the first place, it
must have just been the violence of the duck into the pot-hole and it's
relative weight. Nothing else was damanged though.

![Camera/IMG_20251013_182900_307.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510121900-bagonwheel.jpg)
*Bag stuck in wheel*

I paid for my pizza and walked back to the house. "Je vein manger" I announced
in my bad french before I left, the old guy looked up "je vais ouvrir la porte
pour vous!" I thought this was comically unnecessary "bah, c'est genteel!" I
said, "c'est beaucoup mieux pour sortir" he responded.

![Camera/IMG_20251013_195748_524.jpg](/images/mannheim2025/202510121900-pizza.jpg)
*Great pizza and great beer*

Physically I'm feeling good (apart from the bum) and had absolutely no trouble
walking for 15 minutes to town. This morning I could _feel_ my bad-knee
although it doesn't cause any trouble with cycling or walking, but I'm not
sure I'll be able to run in Great South Run in Portsmouth next Sunday as the
miricle I was hoping for hasn't materialized yet and I'll probably go to see a
physio when I get back.
