--- 
title: Tallinn to Helsinki to Travemunde
categories: [helsinki2019]
geopoints:
    - [59.43178616740596, 24.743388891220096]
    - [59.4471694297785, 24.75099563598633]
    - [60.16064293693044, 24.949951171875]
    - [60.18659839709946, 25.02410888671875]
    - [60.221571644862905, 25.139122009277347]
    - [60.211509994185604, 25.191307067871097]
    - [60.18028218010165, 25.18547058105469]
    - [59.86964070806754, 24.746704101562504]
    - [59.17592824927138, 21.357421875000004]
    - [55.1286490684888, 15.776367187500002]
    - [55.02802211299252, 12.7880859375]
    - [53.97547425742953, 10.8599853515625]
date: 2019-07-30
image: images/tallinn/2019-07-30/2.JPG
aliases:
  - /blog/2019/07/30/tallinn-helsinki-travemunde
---

I am now in the campsite at Travemunde, which was conveniently immediately
outside of the ferry port. I had originally planned to cycle directly,
overnight, to Rostock (100km) and reasoned that I would arrive at 4am and be
able then to get the first train to Berlin, and that the cycle ride would be
good and hoped the sky would be clear, but the weather forecast was poor, and
in the hours preceding the arrival it had been pouring in rain. The weather
now however is fine, but the campsite is good enough.

![Crossing](/images/tallinn/2019-07-30/1.JPG)
*Crossing*

Two days ago I succeeded in getting up early at the hostel, helping myself to
the complementary coffee, cornflakes and milk and left at around 06:30. My
first task was to get the ferry from Tallinn to Helsinki, the ferry port was
only 15 or so leisurely minutes from the hostel, and I arrived with plently of
time and did not wait long before boarding started and it left promptly at
08:00, the journey was around 75km across the baltic sea and took 2 hours or
so.

![Debarking](/images/tallinn/2019-07-30/2.JPG)
*Debarking*

Arriving in Helsinki I had some time to kill, and rode around with no
particular aim other than to attempt to get a feel for the place before
returning to the port to get the ferry at around 15:00 (it was leaving at
17:00). What I didn't realise is that the ferry did not leave from the same
port as the one in which I arrived, but another 18km away.

![Church](/images/tallinn/2019-07-30/4.JPG)
*Religious Building*

I had experienced considerable stress the previous day when I booked the
ferry, which is hard to account for, but it boiled down to the fact that I
booked the 17:00 sailing to Travemunde, and the ferry I was going to book to
Helsinki was leaving at 12:00, and arriving at 14:30, and as the check-in
was to "close" at 15:00 I would have only "just" enough time to make it, as I
assumed the ferry would leave from the same port, the stress was made worse by
the fact that I had got a non-refundable ticket for €250, and I really did not
want to miss the boat. I erred on the side of caution and got the earlier
boat, and am glad I did, as I think I would have certainly missed the ferry if
I left at 12 and then had to cycle 18km.

As it was I had a cycle around Helsinki for a couple of hours before starting
my cycle ride to the further port. Finland, or at least Helsinki, seems like a
good place for cycling, over the 18km there were numerous cycle paths and no
need at all to cycle on the road. Another thing I noticed is that people were
quite cheerful and would smile, apparently Finland ranked 1st in the happiness
index in 2018 and 2019.

![Street](/images/tallinn/2019-07-30/5.JPG)
*A Street in Helsinki*

I made my way to the port, passing some cycle tourists coming the other way
who I assumed were coming from the port, and overtaking another couple who I
assumed were going to the port. I didn't say anything or have a good look at
them, but could assume I was on the same boat as them finally.

As I came into the check-in there was a cycling family checking in with bright
yellow jackets, when they moved on I was greeted by a friendly girl who
cheerfully took my documents and handed me a ticket for the bike and a yellow
vest ("because you will be cycling near the lorries etc"). "Is there anywhere
to sit down?" "Well, theres the toilet, and the terminal, but the terminal is
locked" "So, just the toilet then?" "err, yeah. You need to wait for around 2
hours".

![Yellow Jackets](/images/tallinn/2019-07-30/4-5.JPG)
*Yellow jackets being led the boat*

The other cyclists had already started sitting on the road barrier beyond the
checked gate, and I waved, left to use the toilet, and came back and joined
them. The family hadn't cycled so far, and had rented a holiday cottage around
80km inland. They were also from Berlin and had decided to travel in a more
eco-friendly way, another German couple had travelled across from Gothenberg.
As the 2 hours passed by more cyclists joined, and I think I succeeded in
speaking to most of them finally, although curiously I spoke to none on the
ferry trip itself.

We were the last ones on the boat, and had to watch all the lanes of traffic
go before us, before we were told to follow a leading car to the boat and we
went up the ramp and were inside.

![Deck](/images/tallinn/2019-07-30/7.JPG)
*The Deck*

I went directly upstairs and got a coffee. I would have gotten a cake, but
everything was outrageously expensive. A pizza _slice_ was €8 (and it wasn't
large), and dinner €30. I spent my first few hours programming, then reading.
In the evening there was live music, the jazz duo played a variety of popular
songs, frequently featuring duelling solos which would elicit scattered
applause. They were actually quite good, the singer was playing a 7 string
bass and using a variety of pedals for both the bass and his voice (for adding
harmonies), but I enjoyed the guitarist the most. I treated myself to two
beers, costing €5 each.

I had suspected that the food would be beyond what I'd feel comfortable paying
for, so I came more-or-less prepared. For dinner I had a can of baked beans
(slyly stealing a fork from the restaurant), and I had prepared several
sandwiches at the hostel, in addition to this I had some biscuits and some
chilli-nuts, I haven't eaten at all well over the past 48 hours and am looking
forward to getting some real food tomorrow.

I didn't reserve a cabin, which I regretted because it was only €20-30 extra
and would have made my journey far more comfortable. When it came to sleeping
I had my sleeping bag and reposed curled up on two seats. There was lots of
noise from the bar on the deck below and people were talking freely on the
current deck and I was not at all comfortable, out of all the passengers I'd
guess 90% had cabins, and the number of "recliner seats" (my accommodation
choice) was very limited.

![Boat](/images/tallinn/2019-07-30/8.JPG)
*Boat Spotted*

I didn't sleep well accordingly and woke early and made my way to the cafe for
another expensive coffee and did some more work. The internet on my mobile
phone would occasionally start working when the boat passed close enough to
land, and I was curious about the on-board Wifi, but less so when I saw the
cost - €25 for 24 hours.

As previously hinted at, I saw some of the cyclists I had met at the ferry
port, but was not inclined to talk to any of them. At one point I was watching
the music and I realised I was sitting in front of a group of them who were
chatting for the first time, I turned around and was going to participate but
the moment never came and so I don't think in I spoke with anybody again until
the next day when we were debarking.

We were the last ones on the ferry and some of the last off, I made my way to
the campsite. I had hoped to get something to eat, but the restaurant had just
stopped serving. I'm not so hungry however, it's more the quality of food
that I'm lacking (having eaten far too many nuts and biscuits). I think there
is a supermarket not far from the campsite and will endeavour to get some
breakfast.

I'm still not sure what my plan is tomorrow, I will certainly make it back to
Berlin by train, it's just a question of whether I cycle to Rostock, or get
the train from here.
