--- 
title: Travemunde, Rostock, Berlin
categories: [helsinki2019]
geopoints:
    - [53.97547425742953, 10.8599853515625]
date: 2019-07-31
aliases:
  - /blog/2019/07/31/travemunde-rostock-berlin
---

This is the last blog post of the trip. I'm on the train to Berlin and from
there directly back into my normal life as I'll go straight from the train
station to the Symfony User Group meetup.

I slept unbelievably well in the tent last night, I didn't feel particularly
hungry despite my inappropriate diet for the past few days, but then I hadn't
been moving or expending any energy, so what I had was likely enough to
sustain me.

I woke to the sound of rain beating on the sheets of the tent at around 7am
and would have laid there more but wanted to get a relatively early start. I
had intended to visit the supermarket early before leaving the campsite, but
as it was 1km away and raining, I decided to see if the campsite had any
breakfasting facilities.

As I walked out of the tent field I could see a group of people in a shelter,
with tables and chairs and drinking coffee from cups served from the shop
behind the shelter, so I approached hoping there would be a hot breakfast of
some description, but there was only filter coffee and bread. But there were a
few different types of bread, and I got a cheese bread and some kind of herb
bread, I sat down in the shelter with the other campers and quietly drank my
coffee and ate my cheese bread, then went back to the tent to eat the other
bread with a liberal amount of strawberry jam.

It had now stopped raining, and I packed the wet tent up quickly. It was
quicker as I didn't really unpack much stuff, did no cooking, and if I would
have done anything I would have made coffee, but unfortunately I left my
coffee maker in the Imaginary hostel in Tallinn. It had served me for two
years, even after the handle had fallen off on my trip to Norway last year.
But at least I now have an excuse to buy one with a handle, so I'm not
particularly sad about it.

I made may way north from the campsite to what I thought was a bridge, but it
was a (short) cat ferry crossing. The ferry was there, and I rushed to buy a
ticket, it said €0.90 unfortunately I knew I had spent all my euros and was in
need of a cash machine, but I had various coins (including Polish ones) and
managed to find €0.80, but the remaining €0.10 eluded me and I ransacked my
bags looking for it, the machine spat my money out after a certain period then
I noticed it accepted card, the ferry was still there and I paid with card
quickly and ran up. I didn't have to rush though, it seems they were waiting
for several fire engines, and I waited for some minutes before the fire
engines boarded with sirens flashing and the boat promptly speeded off across
the short distance, the engines rushed off the boat, and the attendant rushed
the passengers off as they had to go back immediately to ferry the remaining
engines.

From here I was able to ride 25km on a dedicated coastal cycle path with no
cars at all, most of it was asphalt, some of it gravel, but it was a nice
change and I was able to see the sea and the empty sandy beaches.

I wanted to attend an even in Berlin, which would start at 19:30, so ideally I
wanted to get a train that would facilitate this, ideally one that would allow
me to return home before the event, but failing that one that would allow me
to attend the event directly from the train station.

It became more apparent as the day went on that the first option was out, at
the rate I was going (maybe ~22kmph average) I would be able to get a
train that would arrive at 19:00/19:15 and here there was no hurry, as I would
have an hour or two to spare.

I passed lots of cyclists, as it was evidently a busy holidaying cycling
route, at one point I was overtaking some cyclists when we were presented with
a hill at which point our speeds matched and we were riding apace, I felt
obliged to speak, "Are you German?" "Yes" "Where you are going?" I didn't
understand the response, but then he said ".. must turn here" "You or me?" (I
had assumed we were all following the cycle route) I carried on and checked my
map, I should also have turned, so I went back, and overtook, waved, and in
the process nearly ran into a car which beeped at me. Further on I took
another wrong turning, and overtook them for a third time, but this time I
decided not to speak or make any gestures, but ignored them with a benign
smile on my face.

The tent was wet, and it wouldn't be seeing the sun in a long time now, it was
in the waterproof bag. It had stopped raining and I remembered to take it out
of the bag, tie it up and put it on the back open to the air, hopefully it
will dry out.

When I arrived in Rostock I went straight to the train station, found the
train station, wheeled my bike in to the station, and then wheeled it into the
ticket office, approached the counter "The bike cannot be in here!" the woman
exclaimed after consulting her colleague, I looked incredulous, but accepted
it and wheeled the bike outside of the office, locked it, and removed the
expensive bag and my phone and went back in, noticing a very obvious "NO
CYCLES" sign on the floor. Maybe it wasn't that obvious when it is on the
floor.

The ticket cost €32 with the bike, cheaper than it had been on the website,
and I had a few hours to wait. I decided that I could drink a beer and use a
toilet, not finding the toilet in the train station I hoped to find a bar, not
finding a bar I found a Chinese restaurant, I got my beer, some spring rolls,
and the use of the toilet. I sat outside and smoked a roll-up and relaxed.

When I got to the platform 45 minutes before the scheduled departure the train
was already there and I boarded, and now I'm on the way to Berlin and due to
arrive in two hours.

And so ends this cycle tour. I've cycled across Poland, Lithuania, Latvia,
Estonia and visited Finland, I visited 4 capitals and cycled at most 2,500km.
As always it seems like I have been travelling longer than I have, and Poland
seems to be a very long time ago.

It's been a good trip, as far as the cycling went it was not very adventurous,
and I encountered no problems to speak of. There were no mountains to climb,
no deserts to cross, the weather alternated between overclouded and raining
for much of the time. In the first few days I contracted sun burn in the
extreme heat of those days, but it was not particularly hot for the rest of
the time, and I had no more problems with the sun, though to be honest I would
have preferred more of it.
