--- 
title: "Bilbao"
categories: [spain2024]
date: 2024-09-04
draft: false
distance: 120
time: 7h13m
elapsed: 8h49m
gpx: /gpx/spain2024/2024-09-04_10-25_Wed.gpx
map_label: "San-Sebastian to Bilbao"
image: /images/spain2024/202409021906-11stormislands.jpg
---

I'm now in Bilbao in an expensive Pizzeria as all the other pizzerias either
don't exist or are too far away. The hostel is clean but it's a souless affair
and the rooms are 2 steel bunkbeds placed in a room and it's 21 minutes walk
from the pizzeria and the weather forcast says it should be raining and it
isn't.

When I woke this morning it was to somebody deciding to turn the light on at
7am. Why anybody could think that that's an acceptable thing to do I don't
know. Dormitory etiquette fobids it, use the ambient light, use your phone,
use your sense of touch, but don't turn the light on. I didn't particularly
want to get out of bed.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240904_091037.jpg](/images/spain2024/202409031832-1biketiger.jpg)
*Tiger Bike*

I still hadn't decided what to do. I _thought_ I could get a train, but I had
assumed there was a direct one (and I would discover today that there was) but
when I checked the Renfe website they all changed at Vitoria-Gasteiz and I
I the next train didn't have a carry-on policy for bikes by turns and turns in
my bed I decided to cycle to Bilbao.

The weather was bad. Looking out of the window there were torrents of rain
pouring off the roof. It was go out for ten seconds and return soaked to the
bone raining. I was also concerned about the route, the most direct one seemed
to be taking the Route Nationale which runs (mostly) alongside the toll motorway and 
I suspected it to be a busy and unpleasant road - there was an opportunity to
switch and follow the coast - taking a ferry at one point - although that
would add many kilometers to the ride plus the potential wait-time for the
ferry. I decided to get on with it and reevaluate as I go.

I bided my time before leaving and repeated my breakfast of the previous day,
borrowing am umbrella from the hostel. It was about 9 o'clock by the time I
wheeled my bike out of the couryard in the rain. I was wearing my rain jacket
on my bare torso as I knew that anything I wore under it would be wet within
15 minutes anyway. I'm not sure my water proof is water proof but if it were
then sweat would make that irrelevant.

I navigated my way of of San Sebastian on it's cycle lanes before joining the
motorway-like national road. It led inland and then west before joining the
coast after an hour or two and the rain stopped and I saw surfers on the
atlantic waves and the atlantic wind was blowing in my face.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240904_111549.jpg](/images/spain2024/202409031832-2coast1.jpg)
*Sea*

_"I love the atlantic ocean" the German lady had said "so much better than the
mediteranian". I didn't ask why but I should have._

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240904_113508.jpg](/images/spain2024/202409031832-3coastisland.jpg)
*Rock*

I stopped at around 12:30 for lunch in a town and went into the supermarket
and got some bread, cheese, a vacum-packed potato totilla and some Spanish
salty snacks. I wheleed my bike accross to a common square with rows of
benches on either side facing eachother. On the other side of the square 4
boys were each looking at their own phones but laughing hysterically at
something. I was eathing a cheese sandwich and was thinking I could have done
better, I also had a Radler beer (0.5%) which is rather more similar to
lemonade than beer. My appetite for a beer on the road has dissapeared - maybe
it was the heat or maybe just the novelty. I still had about 90k to go.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240904_114402.jpg](/images/spain2024/202409031832-4coastline.jpg)
*Coast Line*

Eventually the national road turned south and I decided to follow it rather
than the "coastal" route. The road was the N634 and it seems to be the "San
Sebastian - Bilbao" road - at least the regular kilometer signs started at
zero in San Sebastian.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240904_122433.jpg](/images/spain2024/202409031832-4bilbao92.jpg)
*Still 92k to go*

The road often ran along side the train line - the train line which I assumed
did not exist. It is a single track line which seems to have the responsiblity
of ferrying passengers between the two cities. It wasn't a big train but I
think I saw a bicycle sign on one of the carridges as it sped past me.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240904_131343.jpg](/images/spain2024/202409031832-5col.jpg)
*Found another col*

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240904_133309.jpg](/images/spain2024/202409031832-8train.jpg)
*Train*

The road also often ran along the river which was brown with rain water and it
seemed higher than it would normally have been and somehow the vegetation on
the surface of the river didn't seem accustomed to being where it was.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240904_132333.jpg](/images/spain2024/202409031832-6loomingclouds.jpg)
*Clouds*

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240904_132433.jpg](/images/spain2024/202409031832-7atlantic.jpg)
*Atlantic*

At around the half-way point it was 15:00 and the road told me that bicycles
were prohibited beyond this point, I checked my map and turned off, seeing
that I could rejoin the road later. What actually was happening was that I was
avoiding a 5k tunnel.


I rode into the town, and took the turning, which looked less than frequently
used, climbed around the corner, looking for a place to park my bike to refill
my water bottles, spotting a space I looked up and was surprised to see a
bicycle maintainence station that had seen better days. It was surprising
beacuse my map did not indicate that I was on a cycle route and there were no
cycle signs, but here was a random repair station.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240904_151427.jpg](/images/spain2024/202409031832-0repairstation.jpg)
*Broken repair station*

As I continued the road led to what a "no exit" sign and what looked like
somebodies drive way and this was on a hill and my gears were playing up and
not changing down so I turned round to help them and saw a man at his window
looking at me and I waved and he waved back. I was confused and somewhat
worried that my map was wrong and had led me to a dead-end.

"Is this the way to the N road?" I said loudly, not making any attempt to
speak Spanish. He responded positively in English "Where are you from?"
"Barcelona" I said "No, you! where are you from" "Weymouth" and there was the
usual pause "do you know Bristol?" I said "Yes" he said "well, you go all the way
south to the coast from Bristol and that's Weymouth" I said. I've said that
alot. "Lots of cyclists like you go this way" he said and he seemed to show
some concern about the hills I would encounter.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240904_153003.jpg](/images/spain2024/202409031832-10path.jpg)
*The path*

The road was paved but it was the most minor of minor roads which climbed to
maybe 380m. My gears were still playing up and while I could switch _up_ from
the lowest front ring, I could switch _down_ to it for climbing and had to
manually push it onto the bottom ring and I wondered what had changed.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240904_155456.jpg](/images/spain2024/202409031832-11mountains.jpg)
*Mountains*

All along the route the towns were predominately populated with cheap-looking
high-rise appartment blocks and there was lots of "industry".

At 16:00 I still had 45k to go - which is almost half a typical day's cycling
- but I was able to see the alitude graph on Google earlier and at this point
it was pretty much all downhill. I wasn't concerned about the hostel checkin
time check-in was until 23:00.

I stopped for another Radler and ate the potato totilla. I tried to listen to
my audiobook but Spotify cut me off "give us more money to get more listening
credits" and ... nope. So I listened to some music while the rain was not
raining with the one earphone in my right ear to avoid being stopped by the
police. Everytime I passed a police car I checked I was legal, but still
expected them to stop me for _something_.

As I approached Bilbao the N634 was getting uncomfortable, it got busier and
busier and at one point a car even honked at me for no reason. At this point I
was within the city limits and left the main road to naviagte the small
streets and cycleways.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240904_165949.jpg](/images/spain2024/202409031832-12superhighway.jpg)
*Cycle highway besides the motorway approaching Bilbao*

When I think of Bilbao I think about the Bilbao cat. It's a big cat made of
flower-like things that was there in 2010. That's all I rememebr so I was
surprised that Bilbao is actually a big city and that it is a very _hilly_
city. I let my mapping application guide me and it led me up some incredibly
steep roads, some of the roads were so steap they had a funicar service. There
were also lifts in various places as an alternative to stairs.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240904_181554.jpg](/images/spain2024/202409031832-13traffic.jpg)
*N634 nearer Bilbao*

When I entered Bilbao I was dry, but within 15m the rain started hard, and I
was wet through. Progressing down the main through way one traffic light at a
time with rain chucking down and I wound my way over a bridge over the
motorway to the hostel. I had expected it to be a low-key, low-budget hostel,
so when I arrived at a huge gate with an equally huge building I assumed I had
the wrong address, but it was.

The hostel was a clinical affair. There was a single older lady at the
reception with three people in front of me and the check-in took 15m for each
person and I cannot imagine how. I was soaking wet and exhausted but standing
firm. A group of fifteen German teenagers were gathering in the reception area in
the meantime for a big night out.

I put my bike in the somewhat insecure secure bike storage, as it was insecure
(you could basically climb over and steal anything you wanted) I took all my
bags in with me. Had a shower without a towel lay down on my squeaky wobbly
top bunk bed and realised that it was 21 minutes to the nearest restaurant and
decided to run down before it started raining.

Unfortunately it _is_ now raining and I have to run _up_ the hostel. I should
probably book my boat.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240904_210102.jpg](/images/spain2024/202409031832-14pizza.jpg)
*Pizza Finale*

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240904_214154.jpg](/images/spain2024/202409031832-15rain.jpg)
*Rain*

