--- 
title: "The End"
categories: [spain2024]
date: 2024-09-06
draft: false
distance: 20
time: 1h31m
elapsed: 1h55m
gpx: /gpx/spain2024/2024-09-06_21-41_Fri.gpx
map_label: "Gosport"
---

Now I'm sitting on a bed in a house with some relatives near Gosport which is
a ferry-ride from Portsmouth. I still have to cycle to get the train back to
Weymouth tomorrow but I'll stop the blog today.

The overnight ferry was quite uneventful, I slept well but woke up in
anticipation of a watery death with the rolling and engine grumbling and
visions of the deck being flooded with water - visions that never
materialised. I ate lots of bread, some chocolate, had a pathetic and
overpriced breakfast, spent half the day programming, some of it sleeping and
watching Lego Movie 2 and The Life of Brian.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240905_191349.jpg](/images/spain2024/202409051755-1redrum.jpg)
*Redrum*

Disembarking was easy, the 5 of us were the first off the ferry, first to
passport control and first out. I abruptly to get my bearings without
realising one of the other cyclists was behind and nearly colided with me. She
was heading to London with the train, I was heading to the ferry terminal.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240905_202039.jpg](/images/spain2024/202409051755-3sky.jpg)
*Ferry Sky*

I crunched my gears and derailed my chain when leaving the ferry which somehow
caused the derraileur to rotate so that the chain was audiably rubbing against
it - fixing it was just a case of pushing the derraileur back round - and I
guess this is what was causing my problems with changing the gears down in the
previous days.

The ferry from Portsmouth and Southsea is exactly where the train station is
and the train station is about 10 minutes or less from the port and the ferry
crossing takes about 5 minutes in total so in a short period of time I was in
Gosport and cycling to my destination where I arrived and was greeted and my
bike put in a garage.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240906_215457.jpg](/images/spain2024/202409051755-4gosport.jpg)
*Gosport Sail at Night*

It's been a worthy two weeks. From the sweltering heat and â‚¬75 campsites of
the northeast coast of Spain, being electrocuted, rising above the clouds at
the Tourmalet, running up a mountain, driving through rain in San Sebastian.

In contrast to previous tours I did some training in the form of "long" weekend
rides which I'm sure helped avoid injuries. When I visited France last year I
injured my knee on the first day and was crippled for the subsequent week.
This time I was injury free.

According to Strava I am among of the slowest cyclists to climb the Tourmalet
and probably many of the other cols. My bike is exceptionally heavy at 35/40KG
and I didn't see anybody else similarly kitted out until the Dutch guy in
Pied-de-Port - but he didn't cycle over the mountains. Many touring cyclists
had gravel bikes with frame-bag and lightweight panniers, some had road bikes
and a saddle bag and a credit card and would wash their clothes every night.
My weight meant going slowly and taking more time which isn't a bad thing.

I had planned a month - I realised early on that I would cross the mountains
in a couple of weeks and would have time to spare, and I could have carried on
cycling, or stayed in San Sebastian or Bilbao for an extended period of time.
As it happens the weather turned bad - even with that I could've been tempted
to stay in Bilbao if the hostel was good, but it wasn't and somehow I found
myself booking the ferry - my mission was complete.

So that's the end of this cycling adventure as with last year it seemed
shorted than it should have been ðŸ¤”

Tomorrow I'll do the Lee-on-Solent ParkRun and get the train back to Weymouth.
