--- 
title: PHP, DTOs and You 🫵
categories: [programming,php]
date: 2024-11-24
toc: true
draft: true
image: /images/2024-11-24/title.png
---

In my previous post I talked about [Value
Objects]({{< ref "11-24-php-value-objects-and-you" >}}) in this post I will
talk about DTOs - data transfer objects.

What is a DTO?
--------------

DTO stands for **Data Transfer Object** and it is _drum roll_ 🥁 an **Object
that Transfers Data!**. Simply!

For me this is almost certainly a DTO:

```php
final readonly class ActivityDTO {

    public function __construct(
        public int $id,
        public DateTimeImmutable $date,
        public string $name,
        public float $distance,
        public float $movingTime,
        public float $totalElevationGain,
    ) {}
}
```

- It is readonly and final so it's not an _Entity_.
- It has an identifier (`$id`) so it's not a [value object]({{< ref
  "11-24-php-value-objects-and-you" >}})
- All the fields are public and "primitive"
- It has no behavior (i.e. methods that do something with the data).
- It has no mutators (methods that could create new variations of this class).
- It's suffixed with DTO!

But, hark! **None of these virtues make it a DTO!**. "Data Tranfer Object" is the **role** of the object. It's purpose is: To give structure to data **owned by somebody else** and _transfer_ it to **something that you own**.

This is a DTO used as the target for a user's change-password form submission:

```php
class ChangePassword {
    public function __construct(
        #[\SensitiveParameter]
        public string $password,
        #[\SensitiveParameter]
        public string $confirmPassword,
    ) {}
}
```

This could also be a DTO[^couldbe]:

```php
// don't do this!
class CurrencyCode {
    private int $id;
    private string $code

    public function getId(): int
    {
        return $this->id;
    }

    public function setId(int $id): void
    {
        $this->id  = $id;
    }

    public function setCode(string $code): void
    {
        $this->code = $code;
    }

    public function getCode(): string
    {
        return $this->code;
    }
}
```

This could also be a DTO:

```php
// don't do this
$product = Product::fromJson($request->getContent());
```

{{< callout >}}
Of course there is a _whole category_ of objects like this: **Value
Objects**, **Collections** and **Entities** are all examples of objects that
_carry_ data about. I call them **portable**
or **flying** objects as opposed to non-portable or _grounded_ objects like
controlleres, services, handlers, an entity manager, or an **api client**.
{{</ callout >}}

Are all of those objects a type of data transfer object? Is a data transfer
object a sub-type of any of those objects? In some ways this is the wrong
question to ask.

A data transfer objects are an intermediate representation that's used to
transport data _between layers_ in your application.

Ingesting Data from Outside
---------------------------

Let's take a step back. In PHP we have a long history of using our amazing `array` data type. Let's
save an activity from Strava to a database:

```php
<?php

$activityData = HttpClient::create()->getOrThrow('https://www.strava.com/api/v3/activities/1234');
$activity = json_decode($activityData, true);

save_activity($activity);

function save_activity(array $activity): void
{
     Database::exec(
         'INSERT INTO activities (id, name, distance) VALUES (?, ?, ?)',
         $activity['id'],
         $activity['name'],
         $activity['distance'],
     );
}
```

What's wrong with this picture?

- **We place absolute trust in a third-party**. In this case we assume that none
  of the fields are missing.
- The **knowledge** about which fields are contained in the data rests **entirely
  in the developers head**.
- It's honestly **dangerous captain** ☠[^dontask].

Let's fix it:

```php
<?php

$activityData = HttpClient::create()->getOrThrow('https://www.strava.com/api/v3/activities/1234');
$activity = json_decode($activityData, true);

$missingFields = array_diff(['id', 'name', 'distance'], $activity);

if (count($missingFields)) {
    throw new Exception(sprintf(
        'Strava returned an entity with missing fields: [%s]',
        implode(', ', $missingFields)
    ));
}

if (!is_int($activity['id'])) {
    throw new Exception('ID should have been an integer');
}
if (!is_string($activity['name'])) {
    throw new Exception('Name should have been a string');
}
if (!is_float($activity['distance'])) {
    throw new Exception('Distance should have been a float');
}

save_activity($activity);

/**
 * @param array{id:int,name:string,distance:float} $activity
 */
function save_activity(array $activity): void
{
     Database::exec(
         'INSERT INTO activities (id, name, distance) VALUES (?, ?, ?)',
         $activity['id'],
         $activity['name'],
         $activity['distance'],
     );
}
```

**Oh boy!** this code is good, this code is _safe_:

- We assert that the data **doesn't have any missing fields**
- We assert that they the **types are correct** (for example we don't want to insert a `string`
  into an `INTEGER` field in the database!)
- We add a PHPStan [array shape](https://phpstan.org/writing-php-code/phpdoc-types#array-shapes) to the `save_activity` function.

{{< callout >}}
**Dan**, that's really good and helpful how your exception showed exactly which fields were
missing, I sure wish more developers took the effort to help each other out
just a little bit. I bet it didn't even take long,
maybe it took 5 seconds of your time. **Thanks Dan**.
{{</ callout >}}

So now we have some confidence right? Our defensive programming means that by
the time we get to `Database::exec` we **_THINK_** (and _PHPStan **KNOWS**_) that the
three values both exist and have the correct types!

So, we're feeling pretty proud of ourselves, although if we're honest, that
was hard work.

Let's look at this with a DTO:

```php
<?php

$activityData = HttpClient::create()->getOrThrow('https://www.strava.com/api/v3/activities/1234');
$activity = Mapper::mapFromJson(ActivityDTO::class, $data);

save_activity($activity);

function save_activity(ActivityDTO $activity): void
{
     Database::exec(
         'INSERT INTO activities (id, name, distance) VALUES (?, ?, ?)',
         $activity->id,
         $activity->name,
         $activity->activity,
     );
}
```

🐴 **Woah boy!** What happened? This looks **almost exactly like our shitty
first example** and what is this `Mapper`? So we've done two things
here, we introduced a **Mapper** (more on this later) and we created a class that represents the data
structrure we expect from Strava:

```php
class ActivityDTO {

    public function __construct(
        public int $id,
        public string $name,
        public float $distance,
    ) {}
}
```

This data structure contains **information**:

- There are three **named fields**.
- All three are  **required** because none of them are _nullable_.
- Each field has a **type assigned to it**.

That makes total sense! Before we start working with data we should **define
what the data is**. Not doing so is probably the reason that people **HATE
YOU** and  you have no friends.

{{< callout >}}
So we could have **NOT** used the yet-to-be-introduced `Mapper` and **kept our validation logic** and map the array values to this data
structure:

```php
// ...

if (!is_float($activity['distance'])) {
    throw new Exception('Distance should have been a float');
}

$dto = new ActivityDTO(
    $activity['id'],
    $activity['name'],
    $activity['distance']
);

save_activity($dto);

// ...
```

But is this an improvement? It's marginal at best. The **massive and awesome payoff** comes when the information in this structure is _used_.
{{</ callout >}}

Now let's see how we can have a `Mapper` use this data and turn an array into a DTO _(we created a DTO by the way)_.

## Mapper

Mappers map blobs of data to classes. They are experts at giving **structure**
to unstructured data. They are the _essential_ companion to DTOs.

{{< callout >}}
Mapper or serailizer? Mappers are more about _mapping_ data to objects,
serializers are similar but are also concerned with mapping data _from_
objects back to their original forms (deserialization) but some mappers also
do that 🤷.

Maybe it's because the term Serializer is problematic. The Serializer is often also
a Deserializer, so `$serializer->deserialize($object)` 🥺. Rust's ecosystem
provides [Serde](https://serde.rs/) which solves this dilema by creating a new
word implying both, while Go uses the term
[Marshall](https://pkg.go.dev/encoding/json) instead. The term **mapper** is
also agnostic of which way it is mapping.
{{</ callout >}}

Unfortunately there is quite a choice of tools in PHP for this job, here are
three representative examples:

- [Symfony Serializer](https://symfony.com/doc/current/serializer.html)
- [Valinor](https://valinor.cuyz.io/latest/)
- [Object Mapper](https://github.com/thephpleague/object-mapper)

The choice of which one you use depends on:

- **Type requirements**: Valinor has excellent support for advanced types,
  Symfony Serializer not so much.
- **Performance requirements**: Valinor and Symfony are slow[^runtime], [Object Mapper](https://github.com/thephpleague/object-mapper) is _fast_.[^fast]
- **How much you trust the data**: [Object Mapper](https://github.com/thephpleague/object-mapper) will crash if the data is not
  exactly as it's supposed to be.
- **The source of the data**: If it comes from outside you want good
  errors, Symfony and Valinor are your friends, Object Mapper is hostile.
- **Existing tooling**: You may well already be using Symfony Serializer for
  example.

I'd prefer to have my cake and eat it and not have to choose between these
trade offs, if in doubt, use the one that you've got. Let us continue by
assuming that you have decided which solution you're using.

## To the Edge of Reason

In our example we created our first DTO! The `ActivityDTO` represents the data
strucrture _as defined by Strava_. In our little script that's fine. But in a
larger application you this is **not fine**:

- **Strava may change their API** - in that case do we want to change our database
  schema?
- **We may want to store activities from different sources** - for example,
  our product manager wants people to be able to upload GPX files.
- **That DTO kinda sucks actually**: It's what Strava gives us, but it sure
  would be nice to have a better **model**.

Instead we should map our DTO to an **object that we control**:

```php
$activity = Activity::fromDTO($activityDTO);
save_activity($activity);
```

**The DTO has served it's purpose now**! It no longer has a role and can be
garbage collected.

An Entity
---------

This `Activity` looks like this:

```php
class Activity {
    private function __construct(
        private int $id,
        private string $name,
        private Distance $distance
    ) {
    }

    public static function fromDTO(ActivityDTO $dto): self
    {
        return new self(
            $dto->id,
            $dto->name,
            Distance::fromMeters($dto->distance),
        );
    }

    // ...
}
```

Technically this is an **entity** but I won't dwell on that. It's an _object
that we control_, it's part of our **model** which is **not the same model
that Strava uses**. We model to solve _our_ problems. **Our** problems
are not **Strava's** problems our object will have different fields and
behaviors. 

For example. in the United Kingdom we prefer to measure distance in
[furlongs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Furlong) while Strava uses so-called "meters" but in
our model we can abstract even this detail by using a `Distance` [value
object](11-24-php-value-objects-and-you).

We are **transferring** ownership. The DTO is **theirs** the entity is
**ours**.

## Boundaries of Darkness

What if the data isn't from a third party? What if the data is from a user of your application[^application]?

```php
class FooController {
    public funtion addToCart(JsonRequest $request): Response {
        // mapping unknown data to a DTO class
        $dto = $this->mapper->map(
            AddToCartDTO::class,
            $request->toArray()
        );

        // crossing the river to safe-world
        $this->cart->add(
            new CartItem(
                sku: $dto->sku,
                quantity: $dto->quantity,
            )
        );
    }
}
```

Who owns the `AddToCartDTO`? It's tempting to think that you do -- **but you are
wrong**. The user of the API owns that object. You **gave them owernship** 
when you said they could use your API[^break].

We transfer ownership. This controller is a **boundary** of your
application, transferring **scary outside stuff** from the upside-down world
to things that we **know**, **trust** and **love** 💗.

## Validation

So we saw that our controller is a transition zone between the outside world
and the inside world.

In our `AddToCart` example the user could provide a negative number of items.
This is problematic for our shop. Should we send somebody to their house to retrieve the items they evidently
don't want? What if they don't have enough, or maybe they don't have **any**
items - where would **we** be then? We can't **trust the user is acting in good faith** in this situation
and it would be safer overall to prevent them from requesting negative
amounts.

We should of course _validate_ the request. The DTO is a perfect place for
such a validation - let's assume we use something like the [Symfony
Validator](https://symfony.com/doc/current/validation.html)[^validator]:

```php
class AddToCartDTO {
    public function __construct(
        #[NotEmpty]
        public string $sku,
        #[GreaterThan(0)]
        #[LessThanOrEqual(255)]
        public int $quantity;
    ) {
    }
}
```

We've applied attributes to our DTO. We're validating _their_ data in _their
DTO_.

{{< callout >}}
**Wait!!** didn't we have a `CartItem` in our example? Doesn't `AddToCartDTO`
owned by _them_ map to `CartItem` owned by _us_?

**Shouldn't _OUR_ cart item
have validation too**? The answer is: yes ~~probably but who's checking~~ you
should.
{{</ callout >}}

Think of this as "**user validation**" and "**domain validation**". Your `CartItem`
class shouldn't be able to _exist_ with a negative amount. It should **throw an
exception**.[^exception] and validation's job is to **ensure that doesn't happen**. What's let's look at our change password example again:

```php
class ChangePassword {
    public function __construct(
        public string $password,
        public string $confirmPassword,
    ) {}
}
```

The user is asked to submit their `password` with a confirmation `password` in a common tactic to prevent typos.

Should this be validated by the domain or the validator? The domain only cares
about encrypting the password and the password strength, it doesn't care if
the user had a typo or not.

{{< callout >}}
In this case we _could_ even have three different validators: a javascript
validator, a DTO validator and a domain validator 😧. I don't have the answers
here but:

- **Domain validator**: essential and the source of truth.
- **DTO validator**: check user interface things, delegate to Domain for
  password strength.
- **Javascript validator**: don't.
{{</ callout >}}


---

[^runtime]: Slow mappers reflect things at runtime, fast ones generate if
statements.
[^fast]: If this matters depends heavily on how much data you are mapping and if you need to count milliseconds.
[^application]: You might be using an API framework of sorts if that's your
    thing, in which case the DTO should have been mapped and passed to your
    "action".
[^break]: You can break it, sure. But that's basically the technological equivalent of
violence.
[^couldbe]: but not in 2024 please.
[^dontask]: don't ask me why. I _sense it_.
[^validator]: you can also validate in your
    constructor, or wherever, but perhaps it makes sense to use a library
    here, and moreover it's more appropriate to use this library on a DTO.
[^exception]: you _could_ catch a domain exception and pass its message backto the user. Should you translate it to French? Should you start throwing exceptions with `translation.keys` in them? With HTTP status codes? The answer is NO YOU SHOULD NOT. Your Model should be agnostic of the user interface, changing the user interface should not mean changing your model.
