---
title: Cyclotourist without a Cycle
categories: [norway2018]
date: 2018-06-20
---
A prerequisite for a cycle tour is having equipment, and bags to carry it
all in. So I started the day by picking up the last missing items in Berlin.
My large rear pannier did not turn up, so I bought a new one (€75) and tried
to find a solar powerbank, but couldn't find the one I wanted, so I picked up
a 20000ma standard powerbank, which should be enough to keep my phone going
for a week or so.

The commute to Berlin HBF (main train station) was not straightforward, I had
to change because of maintenance work, and got off at the wrong stop. I
thought I had less time then I would have liked, but I made it to the station
all the same with 15 minutes to spare.

The train to 3.5h journey to Bielefeld journey was uneventful, my brother
reported that he would be 2 hours late due to heavy traffic

I left the train and descended the steps to the underpass looked left and the
right. Both ways were equidistant and led to stairs to the above world, I
didn't know which way to chose, but one had more sunlight so I walked that way
and alighted in a commercial area with bars and restaurants and a hotel (€53
euro per night).

I looked at my map and the camp site was to the south of the city. I checked
my compass, it has been a while since I last used a compass. I aligned North
to South and started walking to what I understood to be South. I then checked
my phone and realised I was walking North. Seems you can forget how to read a
compass.

I started to walk to the campsite, but then realised that it would be far
better to loiter in the city center, and found an Irish Pub and sat down for an
expensive beer (€4.25). Then I heard my brother would be delayed for another
hour and I decided to walk to the campsite which he and his friend had already
chosen.

.. Robbie and Kieran are in Germany by coincidence to see the tennis tournament
in near-by. And they have literally just arrived as I am typing this. They are
parking up the land rover and we are going to get some food. ..

There were two ways to the campsite, one by road and the other by a trail
which ran over the "mountain", or rather a somewhat mountainous hill of 350m.
The hill route was significantly shorter and significantly more hilly. It was
a good quiet walk through forest roads and paths. I encountered a few other
walkers on the way. I was carrying half of my touring equipment which was
heavy and I had to stop at intervals to re-adjust the position the heavy sack
was resting on my shoulder and I padded the contact point with a T-Shirt to
stop it digging in.

I was relieved to get to the campsite, but the walk 1.5 hours forest walk was
definitely worth it (it would be a great place to live for running). I checked
in and got a beer, 15 minutes later Robbie and Kieran arrived and we had pizza
and drank more beers.

We have now set the tents up and I am sitting in the Land Rover typing this
blog post while Robbie and Kieran are behind me talking quietly and drinking
wine.

My hips are aching after hauling the heavy gear over the mountain and
midges are battering against my head lamp.

Tomorrow I will aim to cycle to Bremen - 135km by one estimate and hilly. I
haven't done any cycling in almost 1 year.

The frogs are chirping and a long slow train sound churns softly and a fly
bats intermittently between the tent sheets.
