---
title: Pre-flight checks
categories: [norway2018]
date: 2018-06-20
---

It has been decided that I will get the train to Bielefeld tomorrow. I have a
ticket from Berlin (â‚¬53 direct train, 3.5 hours). There is no going back now
(it's an inflexible ticket).

My bike has been picked up from Weymouth and is being driven across England
now as I write this blog. At around 19:00 hours tomorrow I should be picked up
from Bielefeld station by my brother and escorted to a camp site where I will
be reunited with my bike.

It has been about one and half years since I last toured. My equipment has
been distributed across vast distances and some of it, seemingly lost. But
luckily I still have some of the original artifacts from my first tour 8 years
ago across France, including the following camping stove:

![Kit](/images/norway/2018-06-20-kit.jpg)
_Rusted but not useless_

The bike will likely need some maintenance, it wasn't in great shape when I
brought it back from France, and since then my Dad has been riding it on a
daily basis, running into the ground. But it's made of sturdy stuff (Steel
actually). With new tyres, breaks and some tender-loving-care, it should be
fine.

This state of my equipment in London visible are 2 of my 4 panniers, an
inflatable sleeping matt, sleeping bag, tent, jacket, convertible pants,
gloves, cooking equipment, first-aid kit, emergency blanket, an exploding
laptop battery, cable ties, a lamp and a can of Slovakian baked beans (2014
vintage).

![Camping Gaz](/images/norway/2018-06-200-camping-gaz.jpg)

It was reported that the tent has "seen better days", it has suffered from
mold. But it was a good tent, and I think it will be fine with a new
compression sack and a good airing.

The greater mystery is what happened to my other 2 panniers. The first is a
known unknown: I brought it to Berlin, and it vanished when I moved to my new
flat. The second, a large rear pannier, cannot be located in London or
Weymouth. I have already purchased a replacement for the first from [Der
Auststeiger](http://www.der-aussteiger.de/) and if the other one doesn't turn
up, I will to make another visit.

The last missing item is my portable USB charger: this is an important item,
as my phone is my navigation, and if it runs out of power I will probably need
to talk to people.

So I will be investigating both batteries and solar power in the hours
available to me tomorrow before I set off.


