---
title: Skjeberg to Tanemshede
categories: [norway2018]
distance: 86
time: 5h56
date: 2018-07-16
image: images/norway/2018-07-17/IMG_20180717_101824.jpg
aliases:
  - /blog/2018/07/16/skjeberg-tanumshede
---


My bike wheel and derailleur completely destroyed today.

  
  

I woke up in the campsite and had 3 helpings of museli and jam and one helping
of coffee, then went to fill my water bottles and wash my pots. I cycled away
in the wrong direction but quickly realised my error and doubled back.

Again, the cycle route was not direct and I just stuck as closely to the
motorway (which goes directly to Gothenburg) as possible. There are minor
roads zig-zagging along side it.

It was only 10km to the border with Sweden and I was soon there. I didn't see
any sign explictly saying "Welcome to Sweden", but there was a bridge crossing
a river which seems to act as the border. Before crossing I went in to a
"Boutik" to try and spend some of my Norwegian kronas, but couldn't really
think of anything to buy - so I just got a loaf of bread and a pastry. I sat
down and ate the pastry, which was dry and disapointing, and I assumed the
same of the bread, but as it turned out the bread was pretty good.

![Bridge over the border](/images/norway/2018-07-17/IMG_20180717_100240.jpg)
*Bridge Over Bordered Waters*

So then I was in Sweden, and again I was following the motorway rather than
the cycle route. On my map the road is coloured white - which _usually_ means
that its a very minor country road, but actually it seems to be the old main
road. It was suffering a little from lack of maintainence, and there were
derelict rest areas and abandonned restaurants and shops along the route.

![Flags Flying](/images/norway/2018-07-17/IMG_20180717_101824.jpg)
*Flags Flying*

I made pretty good progress in good time, as most of the terrain was flat,
when the terrain was not flat, I was careful not to strain my gears too much.

At around 12 I started looking for a place to have lunch, but couldn't find
any benches or anywhere to sit down, so I just carried on, aiming to hit the
town I now know is "Tanumshede". On the way I listened to Tom Waits, and was
quietly singing along to the "Rain Dogs".

![Bjork](/images/norway/2018-07-17/IMG_20180717_123252.jpg)
*Bjork*

About 10km from the town, when I was riding up a minor hill, my gears crunched
and then I couldn't pedal anymore. The pedals would not move and a lorry
(which happened to be passing, the road was not busy) beeped at me as I was
somewhat further into the road than I would have like to have been when I
"lost power".

I turned round and manuvoured my bike to the side of the road and had a look.
The problem was that when I changed the cable yesterday, the cable was too
long and I didn't have any wire cutters to remove the end, so I just left it
"sticking out". Somehow this loose end had become entangled in the chain and
run itself into the derailleur, after disentangling the cable the gears were
still not right, and I couldn't figure out _why_. The derailleur was at a
wrong angle, so I just use brute force and bent it into an angle where the
chain would pass.

This solution worked, it was worse than before, but I could still cycle and I
made it to the town. My mission was still to find somewhere to eat - and it
was _really_ hot, I had already gone through both my water bottles and half of
my 1.5 liter backup bottle. The water in both my bottles was warm. I
eventually (it wasn't easy) found a bench in the town and sat down and had a
can of baked beans and some of the actually quite good bread.

A diverse range of people walked passed me, a pensioner with a walking frame,
an African kid on a bike, a Muslim family and some young kids making strange
noises. This diversity was also very common in Norway, though not, peculiarly,
in Denmark.

I decided to pedal on, and made my way back to the main street and started
cycling down it, I noticed another touring bicycle parked outside a Thai
restaurant, and wondered if it was one of the couples I had already met on my
journey, and then CRACK!
  
![Disaster Wheel](/images/norway/2018-07-17/IMG_20180717_145347.jpg)
*Catastrophic Bike Failure*

My chain slipped and there was a crunch of gears and my bike was completely
immobile. I said "SHIT!". I got off and inspected the damage. It was a
disaster. The derailleur itself had bent back and become entangled in the
wheel spokes, and had broken several of them. I stood looking at this mess for
about 5 minutes and it slowly began to realise that I would not be able to fix
this, at least not completely. There was little to no chance I could fix the
derailleur - so my priority was just making the bike mobile again.

I removed the broken spokes, but the wheel would not turn. It was buckled and
the mud guard was obstructing it's rotation. If I removed the mud guard the
wheel might be able to rotate. The mud guard was attached with bolts - and I
didn't have any tool to unscrew them - luckily they were loose and I was able
to unscrew them with my fingers, it was still affixed, more firmly with braces
attached to the forks, which I could not remove, but without the other two
screws the mudguard was loose enough to allow the wheel to pass.

Whilst I was engaged in this, I realised I needed a bike engineer. I asked a
passing woman if she knew of a bike shop "I had a problem with my bike the
other day, and there is a shopping center, I will show you where" ".. and
there is an Intersport there". I thanked her, and when my bike was mobile
again I jogged with it (about 3km) to the shopping center. I didn't dare put
my weight on the wheel and risk buckling it even more.

At the shopping center there was no "Intersport" but there was a "Sport" shop,
I left my bike outside and went in and found the shop, they did indeed sale
bikes, but when I asked if they did repairs "No, we don't do that" "Do you
know a place that does?" "err, yes. You can go to Westmanns, I will show you
where" and I showed me where on my phone.

I jogged then to this shop which was another kilometer or so, I jogged because
it was already around 15:00 and wanted to maximise my chances of having it
fixed today.

"Do you do repairs? Could you fix my bike?" "err, yes, But not today, we have
20 bike repairs queued" I said it was somewhat of an emergency and he said he
would ask the engineer, who came out of the workshop and looked at the bike.

"I have the parts, but I don't have the time to fix it, but there is another
man in town who does bicycle repairs, he has a workshop in his garage" he said
he would ring him for me. He rang, and he rang but there was no answer. He
then said, "well, you could wait here and we could ring again, or this is his
card, he lives only 700m down the road". I decided to visit his house.

When I got there I knew it was the right place because the house had
"Sykelrepairs" (or similar) written above the garage, I rang the door bell and
there was some commotion inside and it was answered by an Asian older woman and a
young girl and an old girl. "Hi!" "Hello!" "Do you speak English" the woman
looked confused and looked towards her youngest daughter (who was maybe 10)
for help, she didn't speak perfect English but communicated enough "She it not
here, she at work" (I think she meant He, his name was Tolb√∂rg) but come back
after 17:00. "Maybe tomorrow?" "No also work tomorrow". I thanked them and
walked back to the bicycle shop.

As I was walking it struck me that I could perform the repair myself if I had
the parts, and I looked at the bike and then at the sprockets then remembered
that I would need to transfer the sprockets onto the new wheel, and I had no
tool to do that (and I didn't even know how), but I could probably fit the
derailleur myself, so I went back to propose a plan "I don't know how
time-intensive it is, but maybe if you could change the sprocket onto a new
wheel I could do the rest myself?". The mechanic didn't look like he thought I
could and was trying to tell me something, but his English wasn't to good.

In the end, he said. If you take the wheel off, then I'll change the sprocket,
then you can change the tire and inner tube and mount the wheel on the bike,
then call me back.

This done, I went to call him, but there were five customers, the guy was
dreadfully busy. When they had left he came out and looked at the bike and
noticed that not only was the derailleur broken (we couldn't tell how) but the
frame (or at least the part of the frame holding the derailleur was bent). He
had a tool to fix it, and he bent it back into shape, but the derailleur still
didn't act correctly (every time it shifted up, it veneered straight into the
spokes again).

He analysed it and tried to figure out how to save it, there was probably some
way to bend it back into shape again. I wonder if the initial problem was the
bent frame, and if I had broken the derailleur by bending it into position, or
if I had bent the frame. But regardless, the guy thought that the derailleur
was savable "Could it be fixed?" "Everything can be fixed, it's just a
question of time and money". We decided to fit a new derailleur. He didn't
have the exact one required, but had something close, he showed it to me and
waited. "So, shall I just fix it on there?" "It will be better if I take the
bike into my workshop". So he did, and I stood and watched him as he nimbly
fitted the new derailleur, and even removed some links on my stretched chain
and did his best to tune the gears: "It's not great, but it's OK. You haven't
got all gears, but you have some."

I was very grateful to him. In the end he probably spent an hour or more of
his time helping me. He charged me for the wheel and the derailleur but
wouldn't charge for his labour. If he hadn't have helped me I'm not sure what
I would have done, but it's likely I would be stuck in the town for at least
another day.

I chucked the destroyed wheel into the skip and cycled onto the towns campsite
(which was just 1km down the road). My bike still needs some looking at - the
mud guards need re-fixing, and the rear break no longer seems to work (though
I don't think it's serious).

The replacement wheel is just a mountain bike wheel, and the derailleur is not
as good as the one it replaced. The back wheel is a slight concern as it has
to hold quite a bit of weight (the older one was purposely heavy and strong),
but I think it will get me to Gothenburg, though not so sure it would survive
a repeat of this tour.

I arrived at the campsite covered in oil. I have no Swedish cash only card,
and asked if I could "buy" some cash, he replied "only for the shower". I
needed a shower "How many showers do you need?" I should have said fifty.

![Pea Soup](/images/norway/2018-07-17/IMG_20180717_200958.jpg)
*Improved Pea Soup*

*PEA SOUP*: Before leaving the campsite I took some of my dried peas and put
them in a container with water. They doubled in size and looked like frozen
peas. The aim was to make a thick pea soup - but after 45 minutes of cooking
they were soft enough to eat, but not mushy, and not a creamy soup. But a big
improvement on my last attempt.

