---
title: Marmefjorden to Foldfjorden
categories: [norway2018]
distance: 113
time: 7h23m
date: 2018-07-12
image: images/norway/2018-07-12/IMG_20180712_151524.jpg
aliases:
  - /blog/2018/07/12/malmefjorden-foldfjorden
---


This morning I woke with a stomach ache and there was lots of groaning as I
packed up my damp tent and filled my water bottles and tenderly made my way
back to the road.

The sky was and is overcast and has been so all day, but it hasn't been
raining.

The cycle route went indirectly around the coast, but there was another road
cutting straight across the land which saved around 15k. I wanted to make it
as far as possible today. There is a stretch to Trondheim of around 70k
without any campsites, so I wanted to get to the last one before that.

The road took me on to Norway's [Engineering feat of the
century](https://www.visitnorway.com/places-to-go/fjord-norway/northwest/listings-northwest/national-tourist-route-atlanterhavsvegen/11862/) - the [Atlantic Ocean Road](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Atlantic_Ocean_Road). It took 6 years to build and was partially financed by tolls until 1999 when
the tolls were removed.

![View from atlantic road](/images/norway/2018-07-12/IMG_20180712_115229.jpg)
*View from the Atlantic Road*

This was the first time I really smelt the salty sea air as I rode over the
scattered mini-islands and bridges. There was lots of tourist traffic, and
camper vans, and people walking about on purpose-made bridges, clambering on
the rocks and looking at the sea.

I stopped for a coffee, my first coffee in Norway, it cost only 20kr (~€2) and
was filter coffee served in a paper cup. It tasted good though and made me
feel better.

After this I was riding to the end of the cycle path - or rather to the
Kristiansund tunnel through which I was required either to take a taxi or get
the bus.

As I rode up there was a cycle-route sign which provided me with this
information, it didn't say how often the buses ran though, it only gave me a
website, which I couldn't check, because _I have no mobile data_. Fortunately
there was a timetable across the way, unfortunately it had been battered by
the elements and was mostly illegible, but I could make out the possibility
that the bus ran maybe every 15 minutes.

I waited, and very soon a bus appeared and pulled in. The driver got out and
put my baggage in the hold and I put my bike on the bus (there was a
wheelchair space). The bus could have carried 60 people, but there was only
one other passenger on this ride. It cost around €7. The tunnel went
underground and covered around 8km, when we exited the tunnel the driver
continued to the bus station in Kristiansund where I got out.

I had previously this day gone into an Intersport shop to try and find some
Camping Gaz, they didn't have any, but they suggested I try in Kristiansund,
so this was my first priority.

I first tried a hardware store, and they referred me to a maritime store. I
asked in English if they had any Camping Gaz, and they did. I paid (€14) and
said "Mange tak" (many thanks), and in return I got a "Har det bra" (goodbye):
my first successful Norwegian language transaction! Later in the day I also
managed to understand the amount I had to pay at a supermarket without
reverting to English.

I didn't stay long in Kirstiansund, I made my exit, riding through a section
of the harbour which seemed like a working ship-building museum.

![View of Kristiansund](/images/norway/2018-07-12/IMG_20180712_151524.jpg)
*View of Kristiansund from a bridge*

I had now done about 75k, it was 15:00 and I hadn't eaten anything, and didn't
feel particularly tired or hungry and I was soon on the Tømmervåg ferry (cost
€4). On the ferry I made myself a sandwich while the other passengers helped
them selves expensive self-service food. 25 minutes later I rolled off the
ferry.

![Another view from a bridge](/images/norway/2018-07-12/IMG_20180712_174734.jpg)
*View from a bridge, not on Kristiansund*

This was the last ferry before Trondheim, and very probably the last ferry in
Norway on this trip. I'm not very sad - the ferries are a pain, and while most
of them have been running regularly, I have had issues with some that required
me to wait for so many hours, and of course they cost money.

On the final stretch it was very quiet - other than the periodic batch of
traffic from the ferry. A racing cyclist pulled up next to me, he was an older
man (probably retired) and we had a chat for around 10 to 15 minutes, the
normal stuff, where I'm from, where I'm going, where I'm _eventually_ going,
etc. He recommended the campsite that I'm staying at now.

![Clouds](/images/norway/2018-07-12/IMG_20180712_180904.jpg)
*Clouds*

This campsite showed up on my map as "INTERNET-ACCESS: FEE CHARGED". Which
doesn't make it sound overalls appealing, but there was no other option (there
was another campsite, but it was on an island which required another ferry
trip).

The Wifi is however, is very free indeed (no password required). They also
have a kitchen (and the cooker doesn't cost anything). Today I bought some
dried peas, and I'm trying to cook a mainly pea soup, the peas have been
cooking for an hour now, and still not mushy, don't think they are the right
kind (think I should have gotten split-peas), but hopefully they will be soft
enough to be edible.

My final destination, Trondheim, is still around 170km away, which is
certainly doable in a day, but it wouldn't be a pleasant day at all. So I will
stay at another campsite tomorrow, and hopefully book a hostel in Trondheim,
or buy a train ticket and get the night train directly.

![Dinner](/images/norway/2018-07-12/IMG_20180712_201249.jpg)
*This was meant to be pea-soup*
