--- 
title: Day 12 - Galway
categories: [ireland2022]
distance: 83
time: 4h28m
date: 2022-08-17
image: images/ireland2022/20220817_4.jpg
aliases:
  - /blog/2022/08/17/galway
---

![Map](/images/ireland2022/20220817_map.jpg) 
*Rough Route*

For breakfast there were flapjacks, toast and coffee. All complementary at the
Ben Lettery Hostel. I was joined for breakfast by the Munich girl, she was
going to stay another night and climb the mountain, presumably the Benlettery
mountain which the hostel is named after, after that she would be doing my
last ride in reverse and staying at the Valley House on Achill island
(although driving).

![Reflections](/images/ireland2022/20220817_1.jpg) 
*Reflections*

Stepping outside there were lots of midges in the air, but I have yet to be
seriously bothered by them, I loaded my bike, dropped my room key in the tray
and cycled off, retracing the latter part of my journey from yesterday before
turning off to head to Galway.

I was heading towards a large swathe of moor land which the EV1 cut across
before crossing back to Galway, the alternative was jut following the coast
road and cutting at least 20k off my journey. After cycling the first part of
the route I imagined what those extra 20k would look like, and it wasn't that
special, and I decided to burn it on the road and get into Galway early and
have a look around the city.

![View](/images/ireland2022/20220817_2.jpg) 
*View*

I stopped for lunch at a café, I intended to get a coffee, but the sun had
just come out in force, and I decided to order lunch and a soft drink. It was
only after I committed that I realised that it wasn't a very financially
sensible option, the wrap cost about €8 and the drink €2. I sat down and read
my book, but the wrap was actually pretty good (fried egg, onion and lettuce),
if not quite worth the steep price.

After lunch I hit the main road, Galway was just 37k and it was a short, but
long journey. Short because not much time elapsed, long because it felt like
lots of time had elapsed. The road was pretty busy and it was not wide, so
often, if you were to see me from a helicopter, you'd see me at the head of a
long tail of traffic.

By stages I made it into the city of Galway, navigating to Eyre square and
then to my hostel.

![Galway Docks](/images/ireland2022/20220817_3.jpg) 
*Galway docks from the Spanish Arch*

This morning I had phoned aronud the hostels which seemed affordable (the
cheapest being €30 for a bed in a dorm, the most expensive were €50). The
first one "I have a bicycle, do you have anywhere I can store it" "there is a
garage, we can give you a discount, it would be €8" "but not in the hostel?" _confused
silence_ "no".

The next hostel I phoned reported that they could indeed store my bike, but
they only had female dorms, and, that without assuming too much, that would
not work for me. I agreed.

€8 for storing my bike seemed steep, but still cheeper to get this option at
€30 a night, I booked it. As I rode out I thought that it doesn't make any
sense. I may as well park the bike on the street, and then it clicked: they
thought I had a motorbike. Often people hear "bicycle" and nod at me, and then
later they say "oh you're on a bike!". I checked the hostel website and they
offered "bike stands" and my suspicions were partially confirmed.

I went into the hostel and after again hearing "motorbike" instead of "bike"
she said "oh! well you can leave your bike in the luggage room" "that's
perfect!" I said. The hostel seems in other respects like a hotel. The rooms
are quite plush and have ensuite bathrooms, although the beds are still pretty
awful.

I've taken a walk about the town, the main street is very busy. In Eyre square
there was a performance - a story teller. 

She was telling the story of a man that got kidnapped by pirates, who tried to
extract a ransom from him. She was very good and I was drown involuntarily in,
I wanted to know what happened. But was disappointed at the end when "rather
than ransom himself, he told the pirates he would stay with them! why? to
spread the love of Jesus! children listen! who's a pirate? you are! we all are
the pirates, we all need Jesus!" (she refrained from calling us all sinners).

After this I went back to my room and collapsed for an hour, during which time
my bunk-partner came in, a moody looking youth who didn't say hello, but was
grumbling and seemed to be in possession of a quantity of cannabis which I
could easily smell.

I'm now sitting in an Indian restaurant, I got a large beer for €8.50 and the
whole thing will cost me almost as much as my accommodation, but it tasted
really good and is easily the best thing I've eaten since leaving Scotland.

![Houses](/images/ireland2022/20220817_4.jpg) 
*Houses on the docks*

Tomorrow I'll head to [Father Ted's](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Father_Ted) house, or thereabouts.
