--- 
title: Day 23 - Leaving Ireland
categories: [ireland2022]
distance: 83
time: 5h18m
date: 2022-08-29
image: images/ireland2022/20220829_3.jpg
aliases:
  - /blog/2022/08/29/leaving-ireland
---

![Map](/images/ireland2022/20220829_map.jpg) 
*Current Position*

I'm sitting in the ferry terminal at Roselare, my eyes are heavy from the
early start. I got here with 3 hours to spare. There is free WiFi and power
sockets and I added more content to last nights short blog post and had a
quick wash in the toilets.

My laundry situation isn't very good, most of my stuff is damp and nothing is
clean. I'm due a rest day and I'm hoping to find a good place in Wales to
stay a couple of nights.

This morning I woke, again, in a campsite. I woke at the normal time, 7am, but
abnormally I made an effort to get out of my sleeping bag. This effort took
around 45 minutes. I had 70k to cycle to get to the ferry port for 17:00 -
leaving early would remove the stress. I had my normal camping breakfast:
Swedish Instant Coffee (the same coffee from Day 14) and cereal with water, I
then packed up and was away by around 8:30.

![View](/images/ireland2022/20220829_1.jpg) 
*Corner*

Progress was resonably rapid. I had to negotiate the large Waterford harbor
which blocked the way east - navigating to the village of Passage East to get
the short ferry to the other side.

![Ferry](/images/ireland2022/20220829_3.jpg) 
*Ferry*

From here I took the most direct route to Roslare, avoiding the EV1 except
where it intersected with my route.

![Clouds](/images/ireland2022/20220829_2.jpg) 
*Clouds taken after "Corner")*

After around 20k, at aronud 10:00, I stopped at Centra for a sandwich, I also hoped it had
indoor seating and a customer toilet, but it didn't. It did have some outdoor
seating however. I was hungry and ordered an egg mayonaise sandwhich and got a
coffee. I sat on one of the picnic table outside and booked my ferry on my
phone, occasionally cursing at how difficult the UX was, at about this time I
noticed an older man sitting on the other table, also with a sandwich and a
coffee and he engaged me in conversation. We had a nice casual chat about
cycling, camping and travelling. "you must be fit" "for one month a year,
maybe" "the road to Roslare is dangerous, I wouldn't ride it" "that's
encouraging!" I replied.

The road wasn't very dangerous, or at least not the one that I took. It was an
easy ride to the ferry port. I considered going to the beach and having a swim
- and a sea-wash - but I didn't.

---

Now I'm sitting in my tent on the Tregroes Camping Park. It's 11pm and
absolutely silent and the night sky is clear and the stars are shining.

The ferry took about 3.5 hours, with an additional 30m waiting for all the
other vehicles to debark before the bicycles were permitted to leave.

![Ferry](/images/ireland2022/20220829_4.jpg) 
*First passenger*

It was sunny when I left Ireland and dark when I exited the ferry. There was a
family of cyclists ahead of me and they were being directed away from the
stream of traffic, and I followed them only to be called back "you can go with
the cars" "oh really?" "yeah, you've got lights, they haven't". The man
stopped the traffic and I pedalled in high gear only for the chain to slip and
my entire body dropped to the ground, my crotch to the bicycle frame and my
foot scraping the ground, but I didn't fall off and recovered, hooking the
chain back on to the sprocket and continuing.

After leaving ferry port I joined the cycle path. The man who I spoke with
earlier at my sandwich stop warned me about the "big hill" when I got into
Fishguard. The cycled path steered away from the road and followed it from a
dark distance. It was pitch black on the path and I was glad I remembered to
bring my front light from Berlin (this being the first time I've used it).
It's slightly colder tonight than it has been previously and I huffed up the
winding cycle track which led directly to the campsite.

The campsite was quiet, really quiet. I was told there would be a bar, but I
could not see or hear anything suggesting a bar, after circling the park I saw
a light and peeped through the window to see somebody sitting at a computer. I
knocked on the door and a young man opened it looking at me with eyebrows
raised "Can I pitch my tent?" I asked "I'll fetch my parents" he said.

After consulting with his father he confirmed that I could pitch my tent
"sorry, I didn't realise you were closed at this time" "oh no, we never really
close. we always get people coming off the late ferry".

This campsite costs Â£15 a night and very nice. The toilets have the radio
playing constantly at low volume and pages from magazines collaged on the
toilet cubical doors.




