--- 
title: Day 20 - Sheeps Head
categories: [ireland2022]
distance: 120
time: 7h51m
date: 2022-08-25
image: /images/ireland2022/20220825_2.jpg
aliases:
  - /blog/2022/08/25/sheeps-head
---

I'm finally sending this at lunchtime having failed to send this blog post
yesterday evening. I'm sitting in a tourist information office which has WiFi.
I seem to be in a region with very poor mobile phone coverage.

---

![Map](/images/ireland2022/20220825_map.jpg) 
*Current position (blue dot)*

"How long you here for?" "In Ireland?" "No" "Just one night" "No, how long you
been waitin'?" "About 10 minutes" "You rang the door bell on the Tardis and
all that?" "Yeah" "I didn't hear it" "Do you take card?" "No" and he thought
pensively "But I'll give you my bank account number ... I trust your face" he
said gesturing by pointing at his own face.

Today has been wet, wet and cloudy. But it didn't start that way.

The campsite was peaceful last night, just the constant sound of waves, at
times I could make out the sound of strong wind, which confused me as my tent
wasn't flapping about, and then I realised it was just an illusion created by
the long sound of the tide.

There was no plan this morning other that to follow the cycle route and see
how far I get. After dozing for about an hour I started packing my stuff up
from the inside of the tent and was fully packed at around 8:30. I cycled over
to the campsite facilities to use the toilet and fill my water bottles. The
Waffle-Wagon girl was there, she asked me if I found a good place, I said
that I did and we had a little chat. She was in a wet suit and had evidently
been for a swim, I think I saw her earlier sitting on the beach wall in the
early morning sun "are you going to Kenmere? there are standing stones and
waterfalls, it's beautiful" "I was there yesterday, I cycled past them"

I started cycling away, should I put my music on? I asked myself, why not. I
pulled out my new ear buds, and to my horror the left one didn't work. I had
just bought this pair precisely because my left ear bud didn't work on the old
ones. I spent lots of time fiddling with it, if it was the battery, then why
was the other bud at 100%? They had both been in the charger overnight. I
tried resetting them, repairing them, everything I could think of. I made a
plan to return them at the next "eXpert" shop.

![1](/images/ireland2022/20220825_1.jpg) 
*No dumping*

Thinking that the next cafe was about 10k away, I had made the decision to try
and get another cooked breakfast. It turned out that the next possiblity was
around 30k away, so when I finally pulled into Castletownbere I was hungry.
After asserting that there was no ear-bud-replacement shop in town I found a
little cafe and parked my bike up.

The menu was "special" - there was no simple Full Irish Breakfast, there was a
Vegetarian Delight and lots of other "speciality" breakfasts, but nothing
simple. I got the Vegetarian option and was a bit dissapointed, a relatively
small breakfast with Hullumi cheese, Spinach, vegetarian sausages, fried
mushrooms and a fried cherry tomatoes, also the coffee wasn't included so this
nicely presented but disappointing breakfast cost me â‚¬12.50.
![Bay](/images/ireland2022/20220825_2.jpg) 
*Bay*

During this time I fiddled with my ear bugs, and as if by magic the left one
lit up, and then to my disappointment stopped lighting up. I resolved to leave
them in the charging case for an hour, and it was with relief that I heard
sound coming out of both ear buds after this period had elapsed. So maybe just
a charging issue.

Searching for accommodation, there was no camping site on my phone's OSM map
that was suited for the distance I wanted to make, there were no hostels,
there was no affordable Air B&B, finally I tried Google Maps and discovered a
camping site which was perfect. I phoned them twice with no answer, then they
phoned me back and got confirmation that they could accommodate me.

My other task for today was to find a new book. Using my OSM map I located a
bookstore on the way in the town of Bantry.

Bantry was another busy town with a one way traffic system. I parked my bike
awkwardly outside the bookshop and had a look around, I got a book by an
author that I'm not familiar with which had good reviews and was small enough
to fit into my handlebar bag. There were some Ken Folet books I was tempted
by, but they were 600 page monsters.

The weather was good up until this point and I had done about 50k by this
point. In a direct line the campsite was perhaps 15k away, but I was going to
follow the cycle route west to ride the Sheep's Head peninsular and at this
point the weather began to turn.

Two girls passed me going in the opposite direction as it began to rain, I
waved and the second, a girl, and she did a first pump "courage!".

It started as fine rain, almost a mist, but progressively got worse as I rode
west on the peninsular, and soon I was soaked from top to bottom and it was
relentless. It maybe took 2 or 3 hours to ride around the peninsular
cycle route, but I didn't see much at all. It was all cloud and wet. I took my
phone out once to take a photo and made my phone wet. The thing about wet and
bikes is that once something is wet it's quit impossible to make it dry again
without finding a shelter. The wet is contagious.

![Sheeps Head](/images/ireland2022/20220825_3.jpg) 
*Goats Pass*

The cycle path rounded the peninsular with a steep 250m climb and thankfully
the return journey was mostly downhill. It was still raining when I pulled
into the village at the southern end, I was now less than 10k from the
campsite and I needed some ingredients for dinner.

![1](/images/ireland2022/20220825_4.jpg) 
*The Top*

Before entering the shop I tried to brush the wet from my jacket and shorts.
The lady in the shop was very friendly and talkative, and she called me
"lovey". I had a quick chat with her as I paid for my stuff, then on the way
out I noticed some small french baguettes, I picked up two and went to pay,
the lady was serving another customer, I waited then noticed she was looking
at me "you can have those love" she said in a hushed voice "thanks!" I said
perhaps too loudly and walked out and the rain had stopped.

I was feeling a bit exposed. My shirt under my rain jacket was soaking wet as
were my shorts and underwear. My feet were bare in my sandals and I had no
gloves on and I found it hard to change the gears with my thumbs and fingers.
I was looking forward to a hot shower.

At the campsite, after promising to transfer the amount owed to Paddy's bank
account, I set up my tent and made my way to the kitchen and showers. Two
French women were eating dinner in the kitchen, they are cycling from Cork to
Tralee and doing about 60k a day. I made a coffee, outside there was a shelter
with comfy chairs and I sat down in one of them and smoked a cigarette and
drank my coffee and could feel the warmth spreading through my body.

There is no WiFi at the campsite and it seems to be in a dead-spot for the
mobile. I will need to go for a walk to upload this blog.









