--- 
title: Day 27 - Bath
categories: [ireland2022]
distance: 100
time: 6h40
date: 2022-09-02
image: images/ireland2022/20220902_4.jpg
aliases:
  - /blog/2022/09/02/bath
---

![Map](/images/ireland2022/20220902_map.jpg) 
*Map*

This is the day before last, the penultimate day, the day where I cycle to the
town where went to University and got my first job, Bath.

It was good to sleep in a bed. When I got in last night, before 10pm, the
house was quiet and the lights were off, I crept upstairs to use the bathroom
as I assumed at least 3 people were sleeping. I woke early, as could be
expected when going to bed at 10am, and lazily used the internet checking in
on my open-source project and briefly interacting with somebody who was
developing an extension for it. I made a coffee in the kitchen, leaving the
door of my room (which is next to it) open. A child, maybe six years old, came
down the stairs, stared at the open door for some seconds before turning to
see me in the kitchen, I waved and said hello, but he ignored me, came in,
opened the door, let the dog in and then left. Soon after I wheeled my bicycle
outside and was on my way.

I'm now on slightly familiar territory, I've cycled to Pontypool at least
twice, but this time I'm equipped with a cycle map and would not be navigating
by the use of road signs and major roads.

I'm now sitting in a busy Pizzeria in bath, there is a hum about me, I've just
ordered a pizza and am drinking a very cool, large, beer.

From Cymbran I headed south to Newport, passing what I assume is Newport
castle and following the Usk River, a flat cycle route which was pleasant. As
I crossed over a bridge I saw the [Newport Transporter
bridge](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Newport_Transporter_Bridge), a huge
structure built in 1906 which, instead of providing a continuous surface for
cars to traverse, transports a section of road from one side to the other.

![Castle](/images/ireland2022/20220902_1.jpg) 
*Castle*

I hadn't had a real breakfast, only a coffee at the Air B&B and a single, small,
pain-au-choclat that I had, so I was looking for a good cooked breakfast.

![Usk](/images/ireland2022/20220902_2.jpg) 
*Along the Usk*

The cycle route became boring quickly, it was running along very bland lanes
which turned at right angles, and were going to add at least 10k to my journey
time when there was a "perfectly good" more busy road which ran directly to
the town I had decided to find breakfast in - Caldicot. The road was fine, a
but busy, but I was able to turn on to a quieter road after a short time.

At Calidcot I found what I was looking for, a place that did breakfasts for
locals. The customers were mostly in high-vis jackets and wearing work boots,
perhaps dock workers, or bridge workers, or similar. I ordered a vegetarian
breakfast, as I did I noticed the huge size of the breakfasts being brought
out to other tables. They were busy and I waited maybe 20 minutes. It was a
trucker's breakfast, very substantial, with no attention to presentation. It
didn't taste as good as the meagre, finely presented, breakfasts on the tourist
trail in Ireland, but it was what I needed.

![Breakfast](/images/ireland2022/20220902_3.jpg) 
*Truckers Breakfast*

From Caldicot I was ready to cross the River Severn. There are two bridges
over the river Severn, the old one and the new one. I was crossing the "old"
one, which is a [suspension
bridge](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Severn_Bridge) running 1.6 kilometers
and built in 1966, as you cross you can see the "new" bridge further down the
river and the heavy electricity cables spanning the entire river from one side
to the other.

![Severn](/images/ireland2022/20220902_4.jpg) 
*(old) Severn Bridge*

On the other side of the bridge I was in England, and the cycle path ran over
what seemed like abandoned road infrastructure, old bridges, old roads, which
were big enough however to carry significant traffic, but now used only by
occasional traffic and cyclists. 

At one point the cycle path had a detour, it approached _the_ major road - a
constant stream of large freight lorries - and directed you to turn right. I
peeped right and there was no cycle path, just lorries rushing towards you. I
turned back assuming there was an error, but it said "Route 4 cycle route
closed" so I was forced to cross 4 lanes of traffic to get to the right side
of the road and cycle, holding up a convoy of lorries. When I saw another
cycle tourer coming the other way, also with a fleet of lorries behind him I
felt better.

I joined the EV1 again which ran to the center of Bristol, the further I got
to the center the more confusing it became. The traffic was very intense and
the cycle route would change direction sharply down small alleys, and I often
missed the turnings as the signage was either drowned in the visual city noise
or missing completely. I may have cursed out loud several times, and as usual
my main priority when passing through a city is to exit the city as soon as
possible.

![Neptune](/images/ireland2022/20220902_5.jpg) 
*Neptune, God of the Sea, 1723 (Bristol center)*

There is a cycle path that runs from Bristol to Bath, a greenway based on an
old train line. I noticed however that it is not a direct route, and would add
10 or more kilometers to the trip, the most direct route is via. Keynsham, a
town in between Bristol and Bath and where I somehow was living for my first
year of study at the University.

I must have cycled this route multiple times, but it was maybe 20 years ago.
Some things were familiar, the strangest thing was that in Keynsham I didn't
recognise anything at all from my time living there. Perhaps I never left the
house except to got to the train station.

After Keynsham I continued on the road to Saltford where the road converged
closely with the Bath to Bristol cycle path and I was in familiar
surroundings and the cycle path ran up alongside the canal, and I found a
bicycle shop and got a new gear cable.

Over the past week I've noticed that my gear lever was getting stuck, I
recognized this symptom from previous tours and stopped my bike and lay my
head on the ground to inspect the place where the cables run under the crank
shaft, and confirmed my suspicion that the gear cable was frayed - the wire
was coming to pieces from the friction of rubbing against the bottom of the
frame, it means the cable will break in half at some point, I noticed it
became very sticky today and decided to stop changing the rear gear except
where absolutely necessary. Replacing the gear cable isn't a big job, and I
should be able to do it before leaving tomorrow.

I got to the YMCA hostel in Bath and the man let me put the bike in the office
overnight, although I probably could have locked it up outside and put my
luggage in the luggage room. The dormitory is for 12 people and there are 4
bunk beds for 3 people each. So chances of a good nights rest are not
guaranteed.

After showering I left the hostel to walk around the city that I spent a
significant part of my life in. Lots of memories came back to me, supermarkets
I used to shop in, pubs which we used to drink in, people I knew then but I
knew that I wouldn't find any of them in the crowds today. People from my
student days, musicians I used to know, and people I worked with in my first
job.

Lots has changed in the 11 or so years since I left. The music shop is now a
hair dressers, one of the most pubs we used to frequent the most has turned
into a restaurant, a run down area which I used to live in has completely
knocked down and rebuilt with only the old bridge remaining. Cities never stay
the same.
