--- 
title: Rest Day
categories: [helsinki2019]
geopoints:
    - [54.689709430616546, 25.271301269531254]
date: 2019-07-11
---

Today was the first rest day so far. I got out of bed around 8am, and had a
terrible hangover. I went downstairs to the kitchen and sat down, the hostel
guy was there and was preparing croissants, also there was a nice old man from
South Korea. It was good chatting to both of them, the hostel guy worked in
London for 2 years, and actually studied English in my hometown - Weymouth.
This was the first time he had met anybody from Weymouth since.

Korean guy and I ate the croissants, and when Stefan got to the kitchen
they were all gone.

I decided to go for a run to try and beat off my hangover, the hostel guy
recommended running to the "hill of the three crosses" which overlooks the old
town just behind the castle.

I started running, and each pounding step caused pain in my head, but
gradually the head pain disappeared as I started running up the 163m hill. On
top there were [three crosses](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Three_Crosses)
where several Franciscan friars were brutally beheaded.

There were other hills which I ran up and down before running up the river for
a while. After 45 minutes my legs were giving me some problems, and I ended up
walking with a limp for the rest of the day. I have some kind of running
injury in general and probably need to stop running completely for some months
in order to recover.

After the run I collapsed on the bed, before going out to a cafe and getting
coffee and cake and working, then going back and crashing again, then
going out for coffee and cake and working and finally getting lost and
wondering back to the hotel.

Stefan had gone out for a beer when I got back and had invited me along, I met
him and we found a Pizza place and had Pizza beer, I didn't want to
drink more beer however, so went back to the hostel while Stefan ventured out
to some more bars.

It's tempting to stay another day here, but tomorrow I'll leave after the
morning croissants - on my own, as Stefan is flying back to Berlin having
already cycled from Tallinn. There is a EuroVelo cycle route heading to the
capital of Latvia, Riga, which I think will take 3-4 days, then I will have
another rest.

Have enjoyed my stay in old-town Vilnius. Although it's touristy, it is not
saturated with tourists, and there is lots of space and locals seem to be at
least matching the tourist numbers.
