--- 
title: Day 10 - Rest Day
categories: [ireland2022]
distance: 10
time: 1h
date: 2022-08-15
aliases:
  - /blog/2022/08/15/rest
---

**TL;DR** Nothing happened today.

In a dormitory everybody has a common purpose, to sleep. Sleeping in groups
can actually be soothing. I've slept in dormitories hundreds of times and with
few exceptions have slept very well. Last night was one of the exceptions.

We had just turned off the lights and a few of us were in bed and "can
somebody let me in" was heard. I roused myself slightly, happy to open the door
if somebody forgot the code, but there were no more importations, no tapping
at the door. Then the door opened and a heavy set youth marched in grumbling
(if he had the code why didn't just use it?). It was a minor thing, somebody
preferring to disturb everybody else as a matter of course rather than just
finding his code, and I would have forgotten it if it hadn't primed my opinion
of him.

He was out like a light and then the snoring began. Not the mild tolerable
kind of snoring, but loud snoring. Really loud, followed by guttural gurgles,
and that was that for the rest of the night. Nobody got any rest. I put my ear
plugs in, and they did not reduce the sound to a level that could be accepted.
There were occasional periods where the volume decreased and I drifted to
sleep and to dream only to find my myself concious again and slowly becoming
aware of why I was woken. It was like sleeping in the same room as a savage
beast.

At 8am I got out of bed and went to get breakfast. A continental help-yourself
breakfast was laid out and after that I did nothing.

A day of trying to pass the hours, I've been feeling restless. I tried working
on a programming project, but it ended up with me getting deep into some
intractable refactoring problem which just left me staring at the screen for
hours and feeling intellectually inadequate.

I visited the mountain cycling 5km there on the bicycle (Slievemore), thinking
I would climb to the top, but when I got there there was no official, marked,
track to the top and it was cloudy and I didn't have the motivation to go up,
but instead walked down the beach before returning.

I booked the wrong hostel for tomorrow. The hostel I had selected was marked
on my map, I looked it up on Hostelworld and booked it, and it was only
afterwards I realised there were two similarly named hostels, the one I booked
was an addition 12k to the south, whereas the cycle route went west around the
peninsula. It's not a big deal, I should make it in time, and it means I
should be able to make it to Galway the following day as it cuts my distance
down.

Accommodation seems to be more available now - maybe because the weather is
worse (or better in my case, it's cloudy) or it's just this part of Ireland,
but I'm feeling hopeful that there will be more options going forward.

Tomorrow I'll try and leave immediately after breakfast, I'll need to cover
110-130k tomorrow depending on the exact route and am theoretically
constrained by the check-in window from 5PM-9PM. On past experience I should
make it easily.
