--- 
title: One year back from Europe
categories: [personal]
date: 2023-12-28
toc: false
---

This time last year I had just [moved back from Berlin]({{< ref
"/posts/2022-12-18-leaving-berlin.md" >}}) to my hometown Weymouth after an
absence of about 20 years.

## January: Temporary Accomodation

When I moved back I stayed in a winter holiday-let. My plan was to buy a flat
in Weymouth, but that takes time. So I was to stay for 5 months in a rented
flat.

I dedicated my first month to running every single day and getting to know my
surroundings. Towards the end of January I got my first sports watch, the next
day I returned it and ordered a Garmin instead, I carried on running every day
until I realised it probably wasn't helping my injuries.

I was injured when I returned and also decided to visit an Osteopath, she
advised me to do a number of excercises and wear a sports bandage on my ankle.
My injuries consisted of "sore hips" and a very strange ankle issue that had
plaugued me for a year.

It's possible that the ankle support helped, it's also possible that it got
better on it's own. I don't know. I stopped wearing it after 3 months. My hips
are still a problem though, although I can now run longer distances.

![holiday rental](/images/2023-12-29/11.jpg)
*temporary, furnished, accomodation*

## Feburary: An Offer

My flat search revolved around finding something between 100k and 200k pounds.
There were very few options in this price range, and the options that there
were were pretty awful. I was reluctant to spend too much, having an
existential dread of technological redundancy and wanting to pay off my
mortgage as soon as possible.

Getting the mortgage was relatively easy via. the use of a no-fee mortgage
advisor. The mortgage rate was about 5% however, but I figured if I could pay
off my mortgage in 5 years it wouldn't matter. If I could keep my job for 5
years that is and maintain my current position of privilege in the economy.

There was one property which I took my interest. It was the top flat in an old
victorian house conversion, which had a view over Weymouth Bay. After some
debating I put in an offer at the asking price and that was the only house I
looked at.

![view](/images/2023-12-29/2.jpg)
*looks better in real life*

## March: Waiting

The offer was accepted and my mortgage was ready to go, but nothing was
official until the current owners could move out. So I was waiting.

The contract on my holiday let ran out and I was homeless! Or, I guess, my
home was where I lay my hat and I stayed with friends and family. I stayed in
Scotland, London, Portsmouth and Berlin.

![view](/images/2023-12-29/9.jpg)
*lee-on-solent*

## April: New Job

I started my new job on the 27th of March. It was exciting, and I dived into
the new role, trying to understand what the role was. I was one of two Staff
Engineers. I started by working with squads on tickets before looking at the
wider picture, and trying to find ways to improve the architecture and the
working enviornments, and adding lots of new emojis and channels to Slack.

![view](/images/2023-12-29/8.jpg)
*working remotely in scotland during an internet outage*

## No Smoking

When I left Berlin I was not drinking, although I was smoking casually. I had
stopped drinking _alone_ about 6 months prior to that. When I moved back to
the UK I started drinking again, and continued smoking until I stopped.

I went out to see one of my friends play in a local pub, on the way I
purchased some tobacco, for the eye-watering price of Â£25. I got drunk, and
lost it. After that I decided not to buy anymore, and haven't smoked for the
past 6 months.

My drinking has started again, although it's been stable, and I drink no more
than a litre of beer a day, usually taking a day off each week.

![view](/images/2023-12-29/3.jpg)
*Sunset on the coast path up to Moonfleet*

## June: New Flat

Finally the flat came through, I paid off the solicitors and moved in.

I'm really happy with the flat, it's got fantastic views and two floors. The
only issue is there is no parking, and there's some damp, and the building is
... old. But so far it's been very comfortable, and for the first time in my
life I feel like this is _my place_.

![view](/images/2023-12-29/10.jpg)
*Flat after having the Sofa and Desk delivered*

## Cycling in Brittany

I wanted to cycle to Spain but I cycled around [Brittany and wrote about it extensively](/blog/categories/spain2023).

![church](/images/spain2023/0815/church.png)
*Brittany*

## July: Piano and Sky Gardens

One of the first things I did was order a piano to replace the one I had to
sell before leaving Berlin. I ordered a Clavinova, it took over a month to
arrive.

The company rented out the Sky Garden in London for an event. It was great to
travel up and meet the West Europeans of the company and enjoy the spectacular
views from the skyscraper.

![view](/images/2023-12-29/4.jpg)
*looking onto the Thames from the Sky Garden*

## August: Redundancy

I started the day like any other, but when the day was over I was unemployed.
They paid me for a month after that, but for the firs time in my life I had
been "let go" along with the entire team.

It was quitely devestating, perhaps the hardest part was leaving all the
people I had gotten to know over the 7 months, I don't find it easy to meet
people, so as much as it was sad to see all my professional efforts wasted, it
was leaving the people that hurt.

On the positive side I could, for the first time, openly look for a job
without pissing anybody off. I was free and I could buy a new laptop.

![view](/images/2023-12-29/5.jpg)
*no job, no laptop so I purchased my first (and hopefully only) Framework laptop*

## September: Searching

On the other side my job was _INSANELY STRESSFULL_. I had become a firefighter
and was supporting an AWS migration, while most interactions were good, there
were some stressful interpersonal relations also. The company was investing
more and more in feature development and driving full speed ahead.

A week afterwards I was still waking in the morning with my mind **churning** problems that no longer concerned me.

I started looking for jobs, applying all over the place, and got many
invitations and recommendations, and pointers, and recruters, etc. Finally
there were not so many options.

I failed a take-home test, which was **gutting**. I had assumed it was a formality
and time boxed it to one hour, putting just enough detail in to show that I
knew what I was doing, I missed a division-by-zero bug and didn't deliver one
of the specifications and that was it. They dropped me. And I was absolutely
gutted. I absolutely did not expect it.

Finally I accepted a good looking contract and decided to start my own compamny DTL
Software LTD.

![view](/images/2023-12-29/6.jpg)
*my high resolution company logo*

## Fight Club

I had now been in Weymouth for almost a year, but socially I had not made much
progress. The other thing I had not made much progress on was my running.
Despite running regularly, and doing the [ParkRun]() every single Saturday at
a very uncomfortable pace I had not improved significantly.

In the 90s my Dad was one of the founders of a local running club (he was [club
champion](https://www.egdonheathharriers.com/ecc/halloffame.php) in '88, '89
and '90). It turns out that 37 years later it's still going and has a large
membership.

I joined the Tuesday training session, and a month later joined the Thursday
speed session too.

It's been good to get out and have the opportunity to meet people, even if I'm
one of the strange social introverts while somehow managing to appear as an
extrovert at work. I find it hard to "act normally" and "make friends" (what
the fuck do people talk about anyway?) but I guess it's happening slowly.

The training sessions have been great fun and the speed sessions exhausting, I
hope it can improve my ParkRun time from around 22:00 minutes to 21:00 this
year with the ultimate aim being to break 20 minutes!

![running](/images/2023-12-29/7.jpg)
*Me with pain face coming into the final 100m of the Weymouth 10*

## November: PHP-TUI

The contract didn't start immediately and I had plenty of time.

What could I work on? Why should I work at all?

Programming is my hobby I guess, I do it in my spare time. So having all this
time off left me with a rare opportunity to fix one of the two projects that I
maintain: [Phapctor](https://github.com/phpactor/phpactpr) and [PHPBench](https://github.com/phpbench/phpbench). Instead I decided to spend months porting
[Ratatui to PHP]({{< ref "/posts/2023-11-03-php-tui.md" >}}).

It was very cool, and other people that it was very cool too. Which made me
feel like I didn't waste my time.

![phptui logo](/images/2023-11-03/phptui.png)
*PHP-TUI lnogo*

As I was now self-employed, and reasoning that it would be good publicity in
addition to the main benefit of meeting people and getting drink I submitted
talks to 4 conferences, including one about PHP-TUI.

## Hair Cut

I cut my Covid hair off. There's a photo, but I'll spare you and just say
that it was very long, now it's very short.

Instead here's a photo of my tragically underused recording studio, some
drawers I found on the street, my Megadeth songbook (also tragically
underused) and my **matress**:

![studio](/images/2023-12-29/12.jpg)
*Recording Studio*

## December: Back to work

After some wrangling with the contract, I started it.

The position is mainly programming, which is a shift from my leadership
involvement in my last two jobs. So I'm in many fewer meetings and have been
working mainly in isolation so far. But it's interesting, and importantly,
it's not stressful.

Hopefully Janurary will bring in my first pay day in some months and I can
finally buy the last remaining house essential...

... a **bed** ðŸ˜´

## And then...

It's been an unsually eventful year for me. Losing my job makes me realise how
much I had taken my employment for granted, but it has also been good to break
free and become (hopefully) more self-directed. I'm looking forward to what
the next year may bring.




