--- 
title: "Day 10: St-Jacut-de-la-mer"
categories: [spain2023]
date: 2023-08-22
distance: 107
time: 6.5h
image: images/spain2023/0822/001.png
draft: false
---

![map](/images/spain2023/0822/map.png)
*Map [strava]()*

I'm now sitting in "Le Petite Creperie" in St-Jacut-de-la-mer. They don't have
50cl beers, and only have 25cl, it's going to be an expensive crepe. The
campsite was a mistake, there are so many tents it's rather more like a
refugee camp than a campsite (to be fair I think it's also a refugee camp).
I'm installed in close proximity (very close proximity) with a cycling couple
from Brighton.

--- 

_yesterday..._

The big man asked me "are you of the camping" I answed "yes" then thinking
about the question, "no, I make camping, but I'm not of the camping" "ah well,
the man said they would be open but the barrier is down, I guess I will have
to phone him"

![true](/images/spain2023/0822/000.png)
*the true count of yesterday's ride*

I had found a quiet corner of the camp site, I left to eat and on my return
the same man had parked his huge car next to my tent, and had unpacked a huge
tent. As I sat down to sleep he started his car at 10PM and that meant that
he'd be back. He came back at 12PM and started doing something until 1PM,
after which he commenced to snore in his huge tent. I probably had my worst
nights sleep, in the morning the man, his huge tent and his car were gone.
Maybe he was never there. My legs were aching.

In the morning it was coffee and the rest of the Pain Sportif leaving the
campsite at around 9PM. I would follow the cycle route, I expected it to
follow a train line or a canal or some other relic of an ancient transport
network, but the cycle route was on country roads mostly, with some offroad
sections.

![tears](/images/spain2023/0822/001.png)
*while tears streamed down my face*

Tears were streaming down my face as I rode the first 10 kilometers, not
because I was emotional, but because that happens sometimes in the morning.

![route](/images/spain2023/0822/003.png)
*La route*


I again chose to walk up the steep hills - although my vanity advised against
it, and I had a strong urge to cycle up them regardless, but my common sense
prevailed.

![abandonned](/images/spain2023/0822/002.png)
*abandonned train line, not yet a greenway*

After cycling north I was able to see the sea again, and turned to the east to
make my way to St Malo, sometimes staying on the EV4 route and sometimes
skipping ahead on the main road, I was looking for a coffee but the coffee bar
was closed and I only got a Pain Suisse, after another 25k I wanted to stop
for a beer and a Crepe, not finding a Crepe I fell off my bike. I tried to
turn around to abruptly and the bike fell out from under me, I was falling
towards the ground but managed to bounce my self and managed to hit the ground
with my hands softly, suffering only from a slightly tender toe.

![mer](/images/spain2023/0822/004.png)
*La Mer*

This was before I had a beer, which I purchased (I treated myself to a Blonde
Leff) along with a baguette at a supermarket, I then walked the bike to the
promenade and wheeled it to vacant bench, carefully propped up the bike behind
the bench (oh I miss my kickstand) grabbed my knife and my Laughing Cow cheese
and cracked open the beer and sat on the bench feeling quite happy with
myself. It was a wonderful view and the sun was welcoming me onto it.

![view](/images/spain2023/0822/006.png)
*The beach where I drank beer*

Of course such moments cannot be for free. As I was cycling up the hill, maybe
three kilometers from my lunch stop, I reached for my hat. My baseball cap is
normally slung over one of my bar ends, it wasn't there. Oh fuck. That was a
good cap, where did you leave it? At the lunch place? No - I always check
before leaving, it must have fallen off when I fell off my bike. I decided to
backtrack, the cap cost maybe 15-30 euros and, in anycase, I liked it. It was
worth an extra 20-30 minutes of my time. I couldn't find it however. 

![view](/images/spain2023/0822/007.png)
*El Calle*

The baseball cap is another essential item. It's the best hat for cycling, it
stays on when you go down hills, you can hang it on your bar end, and you can
rotate it backwards to look cool.

There were some long descents today. The previous evening I had succeeded in
transferring my music (albeit without my knowledge) and spent time listening
to David Bowie and Leonard Cohen (their final albums), getting lost in the words
until I realised I was going down a hill.

Realising you are going down a hill
is always a bit concerning, especially if you are a significant way down it -
often it could be the _wrong_ hill. Fortunately I only went down the right
hills today.

![mer](/images/spain2023/0822/005.png)
*Les Batteaux (in town in which I found no food)*

For some reason I thought I was going to be in St. Malo tonight, but it seems
I didn't take in to consideration a large swath of land between here and
there. Which is good, it is 33km to St. Malo from here, which will take me
maybe 2 hours or so. The ferry (which I will book when I get there) leaves at
around 16:00.

I was aiming for a campsite, which I arrived at only to find out it didn't
have camping at all. So I went to the next campsite, which, as mentioned at
the begining of the post, is a bit of a hell hole and I'm not confident at
getting any sleep tonight, but anyway, good sleep or not, time continues.

![moor](/images/spain2023/0822/008.png)
*Wetlands*

After chatting with my neighbors, who turned out to be quite friendly, I
headed into town to eat, not finding a suitable restaurant I sat at a fancy
Creperie "The beers, they are 50cl? 33cl?" "Non messieur, 25cl" oh well. It was
a fancy Crepe, and I started writing this blog post with it, but due to the
fact that my 25cl beer was gone rather quickly and I was taking up a precious
table I decided to leave, and on my way back I saw what I was looking for, aj
cheap and dirty bar/restaurant.

![dialogues](/images/spain2023/0822/009.png)
*Dialogues*

I'm now sitting at picnic table in the campsite, I haven't got much battery
left and not sure what the internet is like, but I'll try and get this blog
uploaded. Hopefully I can charge up on the ferry tomorrow, but well, I'll also
be home tomorrow evening if all goes to plan.

![fancy](/images/spain2023/0822/010.png)
*Fancy Crepe*





