--- 
title: Phpactor 2023.08.06
categories: [phpactor]
date: 2023-08-06
toc: false
image: /images/2018-08-19/phpactor.png
---

I have tagged [Phpactor 2023.08.06](https://github.com/phpactor/phpactor/releases/tag/2023.08.06).

There has not been much activity in the past months, I have been spending most
of my spare programming time learning Rust while working on a [Strava
TUI](https://github.com/dantleech/strava-rs), but this release does include
some signficiant improvements.

## VIM

Firstly this is a [sad time](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=37011324)
for a project that owes its existence to the VIM editor. 

My history with VIM started about 15 years ago when I was a year or so into my
first job as a PHP developer. Our resident company mastermind wrote most of
our infrastrcuture in Perl and PHP - often on production servers - it was
not uncommon to debug issues by adding a `var_dump` here and there. An editor
that could work over an SSH connection was a real benefit.

His chosen weapon of choice was VIM and I, having struggled to
find a good editor (I had tried Netbeans, KDevelop, Eclipse, etc), decided to
follow in my master's footsteps - I asked for a copy of his `.vimrc` file.

8 years later IDEs had raced ahead while the PHP integrations for VIM were
falling far behind and I decided to find out how hard it would be to implement
auto-complete in VIM, and so Phpactor was born.

RIP Bram Moolenaar.

## Parallel Diagnostics

This was a bit of a [composer garbage
collector](https://blog.blackfire.io/performance-impact-of-the-php-garbage-collector.html)
moment. For a long time I had been puzzled by the conspicuous absence of
diagnostic reports from the PHP linter, I finally decided to investigate and
discovered that the linter output was only shown when _all_ the linters had
finished.

Somehow the decision to only publish once all the linters/diagnostic providers
had finished made sense when I wrote the code, but with the addition of more
providers that decision made less sense and, like the frog in the pot, the
situation slowly got worse while not ever seeming to be critical.

The linters now run in parallel and diagnostics are published when any one of
them finishes. This results in _far_ more responsive and accurate diagnostics.

## Index Documents on Save

This also fits in to the category of "what?".

In theory the file watcher should report that the file has been updated - but
this only works when that mechansim is enabled.

Phpactor can either watch files for changes itself, or, if the client supports
it, use notifications sent from the client.

Neovim claims to support these notifications, but Phpactor doesn't receive
them.

Anyway, text documents are now indexed on save in anycase, which partially
solves the issue which some people may experience.
