--- 
title: "Day 8: Scaér"
categories: [spain2023]
date: 2023-08-20
distance: 90
time: 6h
image: images/spain2023/0820/001.png
draft: false
---

![map](/images/spain2023/0820/map.png)
*Map [strava](https://www.strava.com/activities/9686876749)*

I read from The Pest, having to check at least one word per page in the
dictionary on my phone, and then slept unevenly. I slept later in later than I
would have liked, only rising at 08:30 and making my coffee and eating some
cereal with water, it was then to pack up and leave in the usual fashion.

I wasn't feeling super great in the morning, which perhaps was a sign for how
I would feel towards the end of the day. The sun was shining again, perhaps
aggressively so, and I started mumbling to myself as I was looking at my map,
trying to find the bridge

![road](/images/spain2023/0820/001.png)
*Good Road*

"il est ou la pont?" "il n y a pas" "mais il y'a une batteau la, mais bon, la
pont est plus-haut" "C'est im-pont-ant" (haha)

![view](/images/spain2023/0820/002.png)
*What this is*

Talking to myself is also a sign that I may not be in the best state mentally
but I carried on through La Pont de l'Abbe taking the main road (which had a
cycle path nonetheless) and avoiding the coastal path. I wanted to make up
some time and at this point I had seen enough and it was good to cycle on the
fast road fast.

![bike](/images/spain2023/0820/003.png)
*It is old the bike*

Ater taking the main road, I decided to hit the coast road again, as I stopped
to take in the sea view an old man approached me

"Il est vieux le velo" "pardon?" "le velo, it is old no?" "12 years old" I
said "it's a rando! where do you come from? comment tu l'a?" (how come you
have it) "England - I lived in Paris for 3 years" "the shop doesn't exist anymore" "i
know" "we have 2, we went to Nepal! c'est le bon velo" "yeah, it keeps going"

![river](/images/spain2023/0820/004.png)
*Dehydrated River*

He recognised the branding on my bike "Rando-Cycles", the shop I got it from
in Paris was quite famous, and I guess it's now part of history.

A waypoint today was the town of Concarneau, less because it was a town and
more because it's the beginning of the V7 cycle route.

I found out yesterday that the V7 is a _greenway_ - which is code for "what
used to be a train line is now a cycle path" which is code for "long cycle
path with few or no hills". This cycle path runs all the way from Roscoff to
Concarneau and I was excited to join it.

Excited as I was I almost did not stop in Concarneau, but decided as I was
there I may as well have a quick look. I ended up grabbing lunch - another
Crêpe and another large beer - the beer was a Blonde and had a fruity flavour
and it was very cold and good - especially as I was so hot. I had trouble
ordering "I would like the Crêpe Oof Fromage" "Je vous ne comprende pas" "Oof
Fromage" "Oof" "perhaps you mean egg sir?" "Uff". "Oui, Oof Fromage - c'est que
j'ai dit".

![lunch](/images/spain2023/0820/005.png)
*Lunch*

Exiting the town I found the greenway and it was what I hoped for... for a
while at least. It rose with a gentle slope for some kilometers before
descending equally far and gently and I was able to keep a good average speed,
however it seems then that the route diverged from the old railway and I
encountered some hills.

![concarneu](/images/spain2023/0820/007.png)
*Concarneu*

Unfortunately my knee starting hurting again, and became progressively more of
a problem until it was practically unusable. I had intended to achieve around
105k and perhaps rest in a Gîte d'Etape (which is something like a Hostel) but
with the heat, my knee and general exhaustion I decided to stop earlier.
Fortunately I found a great campsite which is rather dedicated to cyclists.

![greenway](/images/spain2023/0820/008.png)
*Greenway 1*

It's a converted railway station, with camping, a librarie, cafe, camping
and... an escape game. "Je peux parle anglais si tu veux" "Ouai, pourquoi pas"
and she started speaking in a perfect English accent "actually I'm from Devon
my family moved her 13 years ago". Being exhausted I actually found it quite
hard to switch from French to English and I struggled to string a sentence
together.

![greenway](/images/spain2023/0820/009.png)
*Greenway 2*

The camping has one of the "vélo repair stations" and a kitchen, bathroom and,
importantly, a tent pitch which is shaded by trees, they have Wifi and I'm
typing this blog post in the cafe with a plugged in laptop, feeling quite
knackered and looking forward to a lie down.

![Billetterie](/images/spain2023/0820/010.png)
*Billetterie*

Tomorrow I'll continue on the V7 before joining the canal path east in the
direction general of St. Malo.
