--- 
title: "Dawn of the Pyrenees"
categories: [spain2024]
date: 2024-08-25
draft: false
distance: 98.9
time: 6h26
---

![Map](/images/spain2024/20240825-map.jpg)
*Map*

I'm now sat in a campsite beneath a towering mountain. It's a very quiet
campsite, so quiet in-fact that I've just been told there is a bar/restaurant
in the middle of it and I had no idea, which is a shame because I just ate a
can of baked beans for dinner and was about to desperately drink a warm beer that I found at the bottom of my bag.

---

OK now I'm sitting in a bar with a beer and it only cost €3. I'm in a rare
silo of value. The previous night I finished my blog post and my pizza and
left the restaurant, walked back to my tent, brushed my teeth, walked back to
my tent laid down, started up at the stars (I didn't put the rain cover on
which I would regret later) and before going to bed I read my blog post all
the way to the end where I ate my pizza which I then realised I didn't pay
for.

"ah, il est la" the bar kid said to the bar man who gave me a disapproving
look. "Ca fait €22, c'est bon?" I'm not sure why he asked me if it was a fair
price. In retrospect it seems that the beers at that campsite cost €6 each and
the pizza €10, but it was a good pizza and good beer.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240824_195952_HDR.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408241845-pizza.jpg)
*It _was_ a good pizza*

I laid down in my tent again and felt awake there were human children making
noises in the playground and adult ones chatting next door to me but it didn't
bother me and sooner or later I started falling asleep but then I noticed
specks of water falling through the thin net mesh. Ah... so I went outside put
the rain cover on and it in turn woke me up in the night due to the machine
gun flapping sound of the sides being battered by the wind, but it held.

I had a lie in this morning, which is to say I got up at 6:30am. I had no
breakfast as I have no camping gas, and a breakfast without coffee makes no
sense. I've trained myself to pack my tent and my bike before using the
toilet. It requires a great amount of mental discipline and saves me perhaps
10 minutes of the day.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240825_073415_HDR.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408242005-campinggear.jpg)
*All the stuff a camper needs except the stuff I'm missing*

I was in the town of Banyuls-sur-mer which was a beautiful port town with a
beach and I cycled effortlessly out of the campsite to the harbourside and
stopped in at a traditional french cafe with waiters and little round tables
and chairs and people sitting about eating their bread and croissants and
juice and coffee and it looked good "Petite-dejeuner?" "Quoi?" "Petit-dej?" in
so many words he asked me to sit and promptly arrived and explained the
"formule" which is as I had described and I happily confirmed.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240825_081522_HDR.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408242005-breakfast.jpg)

Today I thought I'd consider taking it easier. The last few days have been a
struggle. My bum hurts. My face hurts. Maybe I'd do 70k. I expected it to be a
hard day, but it wasn't really.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240825_092213_PANO.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408242005-banulspano.jpg)
*Banyuls Panorama*

I climbed out of the village admiring the view and anticipated lots more
climbing today as I turned away from the coast and headed towards the
mountains. In fact the altitude _rockets_ up to the highest point of the whole
trip within the next days.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240825_082953_HDR.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408242005-banyuls.jpg)
*View climbing out of Banyuls*

There were more minor climbs following the first ascent and I found myself
pushing it up the hill and had to slow down knowing that overdoing it and
giving myself a knee injury wouldn't be a good thing.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240825_085841_HDR.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408242005-coastcol.jpg)
*Climbed out*

Now I was in France one of my first priorities was to get a SIM card so I
could use the internet. Having the internet makes me the master of my
environment instead of being at the mercy of OpenStreetMap's outdated
locations (that campsite 50k from anywhere? yeah doesn't exist - and yes I
should probably fix that stuff) and unexpected prices and availability.

In one of the towns there was a market and the streets were closed to traffic
and I maneuvered my bike inside the pedestrianised zone to look for a phone
shop and more realistically to get a drink. At that point I had a notification
on my phone, which was strange as I had no internet. It had connected to a
WiFi hotspot and I was able to google where the next phone shop was.

There was a Darty (think MediaMarkt or Currys) and it was only slightly out of
the way. I left market-town and made my way to the industrial estate
containing the media supermarket only to find it closed, there was an
Intermarche however and I decided to try it.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240825_140118.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408242005-halfway.jpg)
*Mountains in the distance again*

It was a very busy and a very huge Intermarche. I left my bike outside but
then had to walk half-a-football-field to the customer service desk where I
had to wait for two customers. "Est-ce que vous vendez du Puce?" (do you sell
sim-cards) "Oui, tout en bas la" (yes all the way down there). I didn't want
to go that far with a football stadium crowded supermarket and my bike 100m
away, so I went outside and moved as best as I could to be in eyesight.

Buying the sim card was a highly charged and stressful transaction wherein the
SIM card dispenser was an automated system which required a postal address in
France and with some help I got one but it was the wrong size and then I had
to buy another all the while there were prolonged periods of waiting for the
attendant who has "nothing to do with that machine" to help me (initially I
wanted to check the size of my sim card but didn't have the tool to remove it)
in the down periods I'd go back to check my bike all the while becoming
incredibly annoyed by the swarming hoard's of shoppers and I found myself
muttering and sweating aloud, venting my anxiety. I walked out with the
internet. But as I would find out later it wasn't what I thought it was.

I was now heading to the mountains, the real mountains, the Pyrenees.
Different shades of purple mountains on the horizion. It was mostly flat
however and the road was unremarkable. Even having lost an hour buying the
simcard I was making reasonable time, but while time was on my side, my bum
wasn't. It's really sore.

I started considering my camp site, now I had the internet I had a much better
idea of what I was getting myself into. The campsite I had my eye on in the
morning was reached already by 14:30 so too early to stop, I would continue to
Prades which had two campsites, but thanks to the internet I was able to see
they might suck. The _next_ one also sucked, but the one after offered
dedicated tariffs for "Randoneurs et Velos" which is a good sign. This
campsite would also conveniently bring me to my 100k daily target (which I
have no intention of sticking to when the mountains start).

The mountains were getting closer and clearer. I remembered when I cycled in
them in the opposite direction in 2010. While there were spectacular moments,
there was also rain, pain, desperation and tooth infections. 14 years later I
may not be better prepared physically, but I've got the internet which goes a
long way. But they are _really fucking big_.


![OpenCamera/IMG_20240825_130542.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408242005-mountain1.jpg)
*yeah*

I stopped and passed through some nice looking ancient villages and passed a
number of water fountains all of which either did not work or were marked as
"Eau non potable" (not drinking water). This was a blow as I can't drink
enough of it, and in the spirit of having a healthy reserve in addition to my
1.5L plastic bottle and the 2 500ml bike bottles I decided to buy another
1.5L.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240825_160817.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408242005-medieval.jpg)
*Medieval Village*

I put the water on the counter "Une euro cinquante" (1 .50EUR) I heared "Une
euro soixante" (1.60) and gave her 2 euro "Mais, c'est trop" (it's too much )
I looked at here in confusion she pushed my euro "1 euro" and pushed my fifty
cents "50 cents" I was still confused. "c'est tout". There was a silence.
"Bon, merci!"

I have difficulty interpreting numbers. I _know_ them but I find it difficult
to "process" them and identify them in realtime. I know 99 is
quatre-vingt-dix-neuf. But interpreting that number in a conversation is hard
and rather than own up and ask for time to process it I continue and dig my
holes deeper.

Things stay cooler in the depths of my rear panniers where there is sufficient
insulation from the sun. In Spain even this measure was insuffient but now it
seems to work and the cold water I purchased was still relatively cool two
hours later.

I phoned ahead to the good campsite and asked if they had space (they did) and
when the close. He replied 7:30 and dix-neuf-et-demi. I had to process this
number which could be interpreted as an awkward silence and my interlocutor
decided to end the call and I aquiesced. What I wanted to ask is "can I pitch
my tent if I'm late?".

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240825_174044.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408242005-village.jpg)
*Street*

I'm sure it would've been fine, but I'd feel stupid phoning back, but at the
same time I had 3 hours to make 27 kilometers. Also fine! But what if it was
all hills? In theory it should still be fine, but I decided to get there as
fast as possible without straining myself.

The random route I downloaded was on a D621 - a relatively quiet road, but
then the route joined a route national. Not a quiet road. Although I'm pretty
sure it's legal to cycle on it (reinforced by the lack of any prohibiting
signs) it's not exactly what you'd call "cyclist friendly". I had to cross the
road to get on the correct side of it, and I watched a _relentless_ procession
of cars for some minutes before there was the bare, safe, distance for me to
cross. Fortunately the traffic in the other (my) direction was more sparse,
although still uncomfortably busy.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240825_175806.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408242005-approaching.jpg)
*Approching*

While the road was stressful it was at least a _fast_ road that would get me
to my destination faster. There were some roads which could mitigate the time
spent on the National Road but no way to avoid it completely so I decided to
stick with it.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240825_180125.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408242005-finalapproach.jpg)
*Closer still*

On the way to the campsite I was surprised to pass a fortified town
[Villefranche-de-conflent](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Villefranche-de-Conflent)
which looked interesting, if old cities in massive walls is something that
interests you.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240825_181622.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408242005-villefranche.jpg)
*Villegrance-de-conflet (not a good photo)*

At the campsite I was greeted by a cheerful lady and was told that tariff was
€20 and I could pitch my tent wherever I wanted. I walked my bicycle to a
pitch which seemed sufficiently far from other campers and then walked back to
a sheltered seating area near the reception to investigate a text message I
had received on my new SIM card "Votre encours sur le service interst est
superieur a 10€". That didn't sound good but I didn't know what it meant.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240825_201638.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408242005-vimmountain.jpg)
*Vim by the mountain*

---

**Unnecessary rant follows**

I logged into my new account and saw "250Mo/50Mo" used and a message saying I
needed to pay a €10 overuse charge. I was astonshied. I had purchased the
tariff in a rush. There were two options one was €10 _for a month_ the other
€19.99. I got the €10 one and read it as 50Go and not 50Mo. Because, who the
fuck wants 50Mo? That's the size of some web pages. Open one web page and
whoops! You're over the limit. I was 5 times over the limit from using
Whats App, Google Maps and Booking.com. 

I decided to pay the stupid-to-trust-a-phone-company tax and pay the €10 and
upgrade my subscription. It asked me for my credit card details and then
authorized the payment and then returned an error screen "technical issue,
please proceed in another way" in the mean time **the money came out of my
account**. I was really pissed off now. I was really tired and I didn't want
this hassle, what's more I had used money to try and make the problem go away
but it was getting worse. I phoned customer support, I tried to explain the
problem, which I did. What I could not understand was his response, and he had
to repeat the same thing to me, which I understood, perhaps wrongly. Finally
he upgraded my account to have 20Go of internet but still denied that the
money had been taken for my failed tariff change. It's possible that the 20EUR
was actually taken for the excess internet usage. 

The worst part is that they don't _stop_ your internet when you exceed the
data allowance. They sell you enough to load a webpage and then profit
extortionately on the rest.

Long story short, I have internet again - did I mention that I bought the
_wrong size card_ the first time and couldn't get a refund? So I've given
free.fr at least €50 today in excess of the €10 I planned to give them. Moral
of the story: get an eSim. (which I didn't think of doing because my O2
service _should have worked in France_ 😠).

Anyway, I don't care. I'm over it. Really I am.

I'm sitting in the bar.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240825_214750.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408251944-bar.jpg)
*Bar*















