--- 
title: "2000 meters"
categories: [spain2024]
date: 2024-08-26
draft: false
distance: 104
image: /images/spain2024/202408252048-ohfuck2.jpg
gpx: /gpx/spain2024/2024-08-26_08-31_Mon.gpx
map_label: Ceci c'est l'Andorra
time: 5h57m
aliases:
  - /blog/2024/08/25/2000-meters
---

Now sitting in a basic hotel room. The window is open and is looking out onto
tall trees and beyond them a precipitous hillside. I have "Haricots coco
cuisines aux tomates" a can of "petite pois" and carrots, the rest of my bread
and a pack of Laughing Cow cheese (the type that goes into childrens lunch
boxes and tends not to go completely funny in the sun). I also have two cans
of Leffe beer which are stronger than I thought they would be when I bought them.
The reason I have this tinned food and beer is because the nearest restaurant
is 2k away in Aix-Les-Thermes and I'm too knackered to move again and it's been
an incredible day. The wolves are calling.

## Electric Shock

When I finished my blog post yesterday night I unplugged my laptop. When I had
asked if I could "plug my laptop in" somewhere I was directed to the corner of
the room which was furnitured with confy seats and magazines and a single plug
socket which was currently occupied by a big charger with several devices
attached to it.

On seeing my predicament one of the bar staff found a solution, an outdoor
plug which was hanging down from the roof but which, when the window was open,
was conveniently placed to provide my laptop with power for which I was
grateful.

On finishing the post I shut my laptop lid and stared vacantly
forward before making the decision to pack up. I reached over pulle...
CCRARACCK.. _FUCK_. I was electrocuted and instinctively twisted my body away
and grabbed my electrocuted hand. The pain dissipated quickly and I looked
about and a little girl was staring at me in wonder. "C'est bon" I said, which
in retrospect might not have been a good idea as I seem to remember her looking
longingly at the dangling socket.

The waitress apparently heard my cry "I was electrocuted" I said in French,
"mais c'est bon, j'ai survie" (but it's OK, I survived). The owner seemed to
pin the blame on the bar staff member that provided me with the power, but the
blame was really my mutli-adapter which had the two British pins sticking out
_below_ the European ones, a design that's bad and gets worse if the live pins
are exposed upwards.

There was an electric mosquito killer which buzzed intermittently with another
kill and an infant girl asked her older sister "Papillon?" (butterfly?)

Having survived my first electrocution I went to bed and slept very well.

## The Blog Post

In the morning the temperature had dropped and it was pleasantly cool. I
started to pack up my stuff from inside the tent and decided not to use the
toilet as per my custom and then I lost my resolve and dashed to the toilet as
fast as my legs could carry me.

After packing my stuff I headed back to the bar in the center of the campsite
to see if there was coffee and maybe food. On the way I saw the owner and he
said he'd get me a coffee at reception so I went there, filled my water
bottles. I knew the answer but I asked
anyway "ca va monte?" he explained that we were now at 400m and the summit was
at 1500m. "Bah, Ã§a monte!". I took my coffee and researched my route, using
Google I checked hotel prices and saw that they were reasonable options
(reasonable options being between â‚¬50 and â‚¬70) and decided to make one of them
my overnight home. I considered doing a shorter route because of the amount of
climbing I would make today, maybe I would stop after the first "summit"? I
decided to postpone reservation and see how I got on.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240826_081009.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408252048-cafe.jpg)
*Coffee*

After leaving the campsite I started into the sunny day on what I thought was
going to be the biggest climb of the day, if not the trip. I started in the
shade of the mountains but soon the sun was shining and was on a long,
multi-hour 1000m or more climb 

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240826_084046.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408252048-morningroad.jpg)
*Morning road*

Villages were to be found periodically and the long climbing road. The first I
reached perhaps after an hour and already my water supplies were diminished to
the extent that if I didn't find more on the way to the top I could run out. I
pulled off the main road and rode down to the village shop, got a fanta,
"est-ce que vous pouvez rempli mon botaiile?" (can you fill my bottle?) "with
water?" she replied, "yes" said I. She then explained that there was a font
down the road and she pointed me to it and looked at me "c'est bon
uh!". Indeed the water was _gushing_ out of the
wall and it was cold and I emptied and filled my bottles anew. I then
proceeded down the road thinking it would rejoin the main road some meters
above it, but it was a dead end and I had to carry my bike up to the barrier
and throw my stuff, my bike and then myself over the side.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240826_111537_HDR.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408252048-watertown.jpg)
*Water town*

I listened to my audio book as I climbed up and up "Sapiens" it is called. My
bum was sore.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240826_092731.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408252048-breakfast.jpg)
*Humps*

My bum was sore on day 5 to the extent that I had my first shrieking instance
of saddle-sore pain. Rafa had recommended some cream when I was in Barcelona
and in Spain I got some cream, which probably wasn't the cream he intended but
rather meant for friction. Maybe it helps, maybe it's just putting lubricant
on the sore parts, but it really helped today and I'll need to by some more as
I'm almost out.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240826_090600.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408252048-shadow.jpg)
*Shadow?*

As I was climbing I compared my experience to that which I had 13 years ago.
The main one being that I can now speak french tolerably well, which goes a
long way. I also have more money than I did then, although I'm only slightly
less reluctant to spend it.

There was a train track which often intersected the road and I saw the
"yellow" train a few times winding it's way through the trees. Apparently
it's operational status in is danger. There were many stations along the way,
so of them abandoned.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240826_114911.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408252048-yellowtrain.jpg)
*Yellow Train Station (or is it?)*

At the top was the town of Mont Louis, which is an old fortified (walled) town
which also has a military high-altitude-training center behind it. I didn't
stop but carried on to the descent.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240826_131914.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408252048-montlouis.jpg)
*Mont Louis*

It was the first descent of the day and I dove into the massive and wide
valley surrounded by colour-faded mountain peaks with an exhilerated "whoop!",
with eagles circling and the fresh cool air rushing into my immodestly
unbottoned shirt and I pushed out my chest out and pushed against the
handlebars and took everything in the most un-aerodynamic position possible
with the occasional "clack" sound of an insect hitting either my helmet or my
sunglasses.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240826_134708.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408252048-valleydescend.jpg)
*Into the valley*

Before descending I had stopped for lunch, drinking the night-cooled can of
Estrella and dipping my bread in a pot of peanut-butter. I looked for
accomodation. Ax-les-thermes looked promising, it's a large town with lots of
hotels, but eh, the prices started at â‚¬100 just 5k further was a hotel for â‚¬71
and I decided to book it only after doing so did I think about the latest
check-in time.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240826_123838.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408252048-toiletpaper.jpg)
*toilet paper on the ground, there is a bin 10m away ðŸ™„*

Check-in closed at 19:30. It was now 14:00. I had 5 hours and 30 minutes to
cycle (I checked the map) 67 kilometers. This would take me to my 100k target,
but did I have enough time? I probably did, but it wasn't for sure. What
reassured me was that after the initial descent there would be a climb to
1500m and then it would be **downhill for 25k**. Obviously any time lost on
the climb would be made up for on the descent.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240826_133113.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408252048-summiy.jpg)
*First col*

As I followed the route I noticed something odd about it. About 10k of it were
a _perfectly straight line_. Not only that but the _GPX_ track (as opposed to
my computer-generated directions) avoided that road. Hmm. Interesting. The
straight line was obvously a **tunnel**. I've ridden my bike through some
long tunnels, and I've been prohibted from doing so. I was increasingly sure
the tunnel wasn't an option. I looked ahead of me and on the mountain a head I
saw cars and lorries going horizontally many hundreds of meters higher than I
was. Ow.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240826_123854.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408252048-marypopins.jpg)
*The hills are alive...*

At this point I was starting to get the "oh dear I'm running out of energy"
feeling and stopped in a hotel carpark looking onto the distant lorries on the
mountain side wondering how they got that high up. I fotified myself with
peanut butter and demloished the remains of the much degraded CRUNCH chocolate
bar I had purchased days earlier. The peanut butter was hard going and rather
than deplete my precious water I went into the hotel and got a cola.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240826_162008_HDR.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408252048-accessinterdit.jpg)
*No tunnel for bikes (these colors didn't happen in eal life)*

"Est-ce que c'est possible, le velo, dans le tunnel?" I asked, my French
breaking with my fatigue" "Non, c'est interdit!" (no it is forbidden_) she
replied in mock alarm. Well, that's what I thought, and besides I was doing
well for time, and if I had the choice between "take the tunnel" or take the
"2000m road" I'd take the road everytime that wouldn't endanger my hotel
check-in.

So this was an unexepcted mountain and it was hot. In addition to my "Sapines"
book I also downloaded the first Game of Thrones book and listend to the
Prologue with the men of the knights watch in pursuit of a band of wildlings
north of the wall ...

... _I think the wolves just attacked a donkey outside_ ....

... and their subsequent destruction by the white-walkers.

George R. Martin helped me get up that col. On the way up a couple of road
cyclists passed me going at least twice my speed, which isn't surprising with
my bike and load.

As I followed the road I'd look up and still wonder _how_ the cars got up so
high. It was a long and winding road and I'd stop on a hairpin to take a
picture before turning back and seeing a huge "oh fuck" mountain and say "oh
fuck" and taking another photo.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240826_164525_HDR.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408252048-ohfucj.jpg)
*Oh fuck number 1*

Towards the top the air began to cool and I buttoned up my shirt. I could see
a big derelict hotel, the roof seemed to have been burnt out and what was once
a huge complex was in a state of ruin. Just past the hotel was the peak which
gave way to a "what the fuck" mountain view and I said "what the fuck"
and took a photo, sent it to a family group chat, made a "whoop!" sound,
switched my baseball cap for the helmet, jumped on my bike and began to
descend.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240826_164525_HDR.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408252048-ohfuck2.jpg)
*Col de Puymorens*

The mountains loomed grey and purple in front of me as I descended into them
with a strong wind, the crowns of them were jagged and alien. I knew it would
be a long 30k descent which took an hour and after thirty minutes it becomes
rather boring and my little fingers started to go numb and I had to manoeuvre
them around to bring the sensation back. Sometimes putting them on top of the
bar-ends, sometimes twisting my arm around so that I'm gripping the bar-ends
from the inside.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240826_173718.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408252048-selfie.jpg)
*Look at that!*

As I was going down I had the inevitable thoughts "what did I leave behind?"
because anything that I left behind is going to stay left behind at that point
my passport included.

Finally I descended to the town of Aix-les-thermes. I happened upon a bike
shop and parked up and got the one thing on my list: chain lubricant. From
here it was only 5k to my hotel, on the way I stopped at an Intermarche
supermarket. I hopped off my bike and could feel my muscles burning - which I
think is more about the descent than the ascent - the other funny thing is
that **my baseball cap was still on the back of my bike**. It turns out I was
so excited to go down the hill that I chucked my baseball cap onto my rear
pannier and forgot about it. **it was still there after a one hour, high-speed,
descent**. A miracle for sure, but not as miraculous as the time I left my
wallet on my bike some years ago.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240826_184129.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408252048-miracle.jpg)
*Miracle cap*

I went to the hotel and everything is fine. The wolves are silent now and I've
heard no more from the donkey.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240826_193036.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408252048-hotel.jpg)
*Hotel*
