--- 
title: "Col des Ares"
categories: [spain2024]
date: 2024-08-28
draft: false
distance: 66.8
image: /images/spain2024/202408271841-grafitti.jpg
time: 3h55m
---

![Map](/images/spain2024/202408281449-map.jpg)
*Success*

I'm now sitting in a hotel room having covered 68k today, those 68k included
three "minor" cols and blasting midday heat, but I decided to finish early and
have some down time.

I lay down in my tent last night and listened to my audio book for some
minutes, a shrieking noise would start and it sounded electronic and it
sounded close. I checked my phone but nothing I then banged the side of the
tent and it stopped. It was probably a cicada or similar in between the tent
sheets, I banged the tent side to silence it while listening to my book until
it shrieked no more. I then slept soundly throughout the night.

When I woke I remembered dreaming about riding fast down a mountain pass into
a hairpin corner and being unable to break or turn fast enough and riding off
the edge of the mountain was an inevitability. Fortunately in real life my
breaks do work, and anyway I'd jump off the bike before I rode off a mountain.

The mattress had held the night and was still kept a space between me and the
earth.

Packing my tent there were slugs, slugs on my tent, slugs on the ground, and
even (as I discovered later) slugs in my food bag. I packed my tent up quickly
barefoot being concious of my slimy friends and then rode out of the campsite
into the cafe and got a coffee and a Pain aux Raisin from the bakery across
the street.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240828_083247.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408271841-breakfast.jpg)
*Breaking fast*

The sun was shining again - I have to emphasise that this is a good thing. It
gets oppressive, like the rain. Both heat and rain fight you but given a
choice I'd prefer to cycle in with clear skies than with everything wet and
not being able to see the scenery about me.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240828_105536.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408271841-grafitti.jpg)
*Graffiti de la rue de tradition*

I proceeded out of town in silence and felt pretty good. My legs were not
aching. There were three cols today, they were relatively small but all that
means is that you spend less time climbing each required at least one hour of
climb. The first was the Col de Buret 599m:

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240828_115823.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408271841-buret.jpg)
*Col de Buret*

{{< callout >}}DANGER: I may have mixed up the order of the cols{{</
callout >}}


There were lots of lorries on the roads, and they were lorries of the same
type with the same cargo. At one point a cyclist overtook me before he was
subsequently held up by a helmeted road worker and I pulled up behind him and
we waited. Then we waited some more. In all I think we waited for 15m before
the worker pulled the traffic towards him, moving it slightly forward but not
letting it _go_. The first cyclist was waved past, as was I. The first cyclist
was gone in a flash, I continued slowly. They were working on the road, but as
far as I could tell we cyclists could have gone at any time.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240828_110927.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408271841-firstcolview.jpg)

They were actually working on a new train line - at least from what I could gather
from posters and the "road" they were building which often ran parallel to the
main road.

The second col was Port d'Aspet:

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240828_111700.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408281449-portdespettop.jpg)
*Port d'Aspet*

The third col was the Col des Ares. It was slightly longer and slightly
higher (797m). On the campsite this morning I saw a bike-packer and waved as he
was packing his tent. I was on my way to the kitchen sinks to fill my water
bottles on the way back I thought I should say hello. I had assumed he was
English as I'm sure he warned me about tripping over some toy scooters the
night previously, but he was confounded and answered my questions in broken
English. He told me about this col and that there was a "restaurant and top,
you can stay there". There _was_ a retaurant on top, and it indeed looked like
a great place to stay. It had plenty of shade and places to work and I could
have stayed for two nights and gone hiking. Alas! I had only done 45k, it was
12:30, and I had to continue.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240828_120719.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408271841-ares.jpg)
*Col des Ares*

The bike-packer's bike was had a frame bag, the water bottles were on the
handlebars and there was a large bag protruding from the seat post. He doing
west-to-east and was much lighter than I was.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240828_130246.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408271841-nopissing.jpg)
*Well done*

Continuing wasn't the best choice in retrospect, the sun increased its
intensity and I was looking for lunch. Although I could've sat down at many
places of convenience I chose to continue to find a cold beer. I found a
supermarket with _cool_ (not cold) beer and also some olive paste which I
could pack into my remaining pieces of bread with the rest of my grated Comte
cheese. As I walked outside I realised the only thing wrong with my plan was
that there was **nowhere for me to have my picnic**.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240828_131309_PANO.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408271841-panogood.jpg)
*Panoramic*

The essential problem being that even when I found a bench or a table the sun
was horrendous. I needed to sit down in the shade and study my map and see
where I would stay. So, instead of pushing my bike into the next convenient
shadowed corner I continued until I found a picnic table in the shade, and
continued and continued, all the while being more hungry and more struck by
the heat. I passed a number of bus shelters before I realised "hey, **I can eat
in a bus shelter**". They were made of stone and cool and I stuffed my bread
with cheese and olive paste and cracked open my beer and started planning my
next move.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240828_131945.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408271841-big.jpg)
*Big*

There was a lack of appealing accommodation in the next stage, the next being
a campsite in around anther 40k. Which would be fine, my target is 100k and
that would be _under_ but I also needed time to reflect: this is my seventh
day and I am half-way across the Pyrenees - everything is actually going to
plan and it's been great so far. But I have a month in theory, so time to kill
and it's very difficult to have time to reflect when you're riding, cooking
and writing blog posts.

The other factor was the heat, it was punishingly hot and I didn't want to do
another col in this heat. So considering my vacation status I looked ahead for
hotels and found one in the ski-town of Bagneres de Luchon. 

I was concerned that the remainder of the journey would be an uphill slog, but
it was all downhill and I was treated to being on a perfectly straight road
descending into looming rugged mountains as lorries and cars flew past me and
a single propeler plane flew overhead with a glider in tow.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240828_133027.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408271841-straight1.jpg)
*Descending to Bagneres*

I arrived at the hotel at 16:00. The owner "esc-ce que vous avez reservez?" I
said that yes I had reserved he double checked his list, and looked worried. I
explained that I had reserved one hour ago and he was greatly relieved.

"You are English?" he said after seeing my address. I replied that yes I was.
"Your French is very good". This was a disaster. I'm happy to speak French as
long as nobody complements me with it _in English_. It confuses everything. I
don't know if I should speak English or French, and now that I've _spoken_
English I lose my fluency in French and it would then be entirely reasonable
for him to follow up with "your French, sir, is awful.".

He offered to put my bike in a safe place and I unpacked it, unlocked it, and
brought it in from the street and squeezed it into a narrow corridor
containing the buildings utilities.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240828_163008.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408271841-hotel.jpg)
*Hotel Room*

My bedroom wasn't air conditioned but it was releavtively cool and the window
opened onto the town square. I had a shower in the bath (with soap!) and
chucked my cycling clothes underfoot and trampled on them and watched the
water turn brown with accumulated dirt.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240828_170349.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408271841-beer1.jpg)
*Beer*

I now had time to kill and decided to venture into the high street and take a
walk. I walked down it, observing places to eat later. I found an Intersport
spoorts shop and wandered about it wondering if I needed anything. The only
items I'm really missing are:

- an indestructable drinking cup (for camping coffee)
- a knife and fork

Until now I've been eating with a _broken_ wooden fork. Earlier in the day at
the supermarket I had looked for a knife and fork, but they had sold out of
forks and only had knives and then they were in packs of three. I should try
and steal them at some point, until then the wooden one is fine.

I didn't buy anything in the shop and continued my walk. I had to figure out
my plans for tomorrow. I tried sitting down on a bench, but I was thirsty, so
it was to the bar and I sat down with a blonde bier. I found a hostel! I
prefer staying in hostels but there have been few if any on the jounrey so
far. There are plenty of Gites d'Etape ("hiking stage" stop-overs), but to be
honest I haven't figured out how to book them and even then I think only some
of them are on roads.

I phoned ahead to the hostel. I had already checked if they had availability.
I had also checked the weather. The weather **did not look good**. Tomorrow
the morning is sunny but the afternoon is a blot of dark clouds and
thunder. Unfortunately this seems to be the case for the following days also,
which is a shame as I rather wanted to stay at the hostel for two nights and
do a trail run or a hike. Maybe I could still do that in the morning.

The other problem was that the hostel was three mountain passes away, I said
in French 

"In fact, the problem, it's that I come with the bicycle and normally I would
arrive before ten-nine hour, but, then, you see, it is necessary that I make 3
mountain passes. Is it grave if I am tardy?". 

"You speak English? Your French is very good but because of the traffic..."

Damn it. We proceeded to speak in English and he explained that he could
_wait_ until 19:30 but he had in-fact to return to his children and could not
wait indefnitely and I said I would make every effort to arrvie before 19:00.

Having a time limit is a problem. On a road bike you can do 100k in an
morning. But with a tourer with 40KG of stuff over mountain passes it will
take much longer. At least 7 hours. So it's not sure that I can make the
distance on time, but hopefully I'll be there by six if everything goes right
and I LEAVE EARLY AND DON'T STOP FOR TOO LONG FOR BREAKFAST AND LUNCH.

The three cols tomorrow are "Col de Peyresourde", "Col d'Aspin" and the famous
Col de Tourmalet - one of the highest road-passes in the Pyrenees. So it will
probably be a strenuous day, and possibly a very thundery and visually
impaired one although you wouldn't guess that from the weather right now, it's
19:00 I've eaten a pizza the sky is blue.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240828_193258.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408271841-pizza.jpg)
*Pizza*
