--- 
title: "Col de Tourmalet"
categories: [spain2024]
date: 2024-08-29
draft: false
distance: 100
image: /images/spain2024/202408281956-24bikeclouds.jpg
time: 8h?
---

I'm now sitting in the hostel, there is French music playing in a large common
room with books, plenty of sofas, table tennis and a bar. This is the low
season because this is a ski-town. So it's pretty quiet, but the atomsphere is
nice. A rumble of thunder can be heard outside and the patter of rain which I
was fortunate to (mostly) avoid today. But I shuoldn't have been so lucky
according to the weather forcast. Today I did 3 cols including the Col de
Tourmalet - one of the most famous and one of the highest road passes in the
Pyrenees which seems to be frequenty used in the Tour de France.

This morning I woke up at 07:45 and knew that it would be a tough day. I had
reserved the hostel and it was 100k away and there were three cols to climb.
I thought it possible but I knew I wouldn't have time to hang around so I left
the hotel at 08:15 (after waiting for some minutes because they couldn't take
my payment) and wheeled the bike to bakery and got a take out coffee and some
pastries and was on the road at 08:30.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240829_073226.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408281956-1morning.jpg)
*Town square*

I forgot to start my GPS tracker but I didn't know that yet.

After leaving Luchon I essentially started climbing the first col, col de
Pyresourde. The weather was misty when I opened the hotel window but it clered
and was sunny. But I knew at this point I was potentially cycling into a
storm.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240829_085444.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408281956-2upsidedownsign.jpg)
*There's a theme of upside down signs in this region*

The weather forcast suggested that at 14:00 there would be a thunderstorm, and
there was even a storm warning. It didn't matter much - if I were to stay
behind for a day the weather wasn't getting better. So I took my chances.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240829_085753.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408281956-3bike.jpg)
*And lots of things like this*

I passed more cyclists than usual some of them would send energy by shouting
"Allez!" but most would nod and wave to varying degrees. My approach would
differ based on the type of cyclist (the ones like me got a big wave) the road
bikes sometimes got big waves too if I was feeling good, and a barely
noticable nod if I wasn't. Sometimes they would ignore you completely having
decided long ago to stop playing the nodding game.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240829_090045.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408281956-4water.jpg)
*More water*

I felt good climbing Pyresourde. As I passed 1000m as I was vibing to Stevie
Wonder's "Free" and my muscles were aching but working, sweat pouring from my
pores, the sun was shining but cool, the landscape spectacular and I had
endorphine chills flooding through my body and I let out a coarse throated
"whoop" and I felt great.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240829_091217.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408281956-5lacoo.jpg)
*And some great commune names*

Soon afterwards I saw a cyclist with paniers in my rearview mirror and he was
gaining very slowly but surely and a conversation would probably ensue. I
wanted that conversation to be over so I pulled in and slowed "Salut!"

"Salut!" I said and then "Comment ca va?" 
"Bien et toi" I replied "Bien"

He was from Bryancon and cycling east to west, camping if it was raining, bivouac if not. After talking he pulled in behind me and I saw that he was travelling with his girlfriend and we went three of us to the summit.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240829_100326.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408281956-7twistinghairpins.jpg)
*Looking at the hairpin rises*

At the summit I didn't hang around. I took my photos and said goodbye to the
couple who had sat down for a sandwhich. I was hungry and after the
significant descent I stopped in a village by a river and it was 10:30 and I
cracked open the French of equivalent of baked beans drank some water and then
continued to the next col.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240829_105011.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408281956-12beans.jpg)
*Powered by beans*

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240829_102206.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408281956-9colpyresourdes.jpg)
*There*

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240829_102234.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408281956-10colpuresourdes.jpg)
*The black sign*

I was going down a national road and there was a diversion, I didn't take much
notice and saw a cyclist go down the diverted road, but after proceeding some
meters I questioned if I shouldn't question one of the road workers -- I
didn't want to get so far and find out that there was no bridge (as has
happened before). I asked as a large digger was turning round "mind out!" the
worker said, and then said that the diversion was the for market.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240829_102608.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408281956-11descent.jpg)
*Descending*

The market was packed with people and I had to dismount my bike to walk
through the center, in a crowded sqaure I saw a water fountain, the type with
a rotating handle on top. I parked my bike got my water bottle and span the
wheel, soon enough water begain pouring out. Having had my fill I waited for
it to stop but it didn't. I tried spinning it again and waited, and it kept
gushing. I didn't want to leave it running, but it wouldn't stop. A local man
(he had to be local) was sitting by "it will stop yes?" I asked, the man gave
the barest of notice and gave a hardly imperceptible shrug while staring a
head out of his weathered and tanned head. Another local approached without
making eye contact with me and roated the handle precisely to stop the gush. I
spent the next 15m wonder how those things worked.


Now the weather started to get cloudy and I was on the Col d'Aspin, slightly
"lower" than Col de Puresourde at 1481m. As I climbed the clouds closed in and
it was damp, at some points raining. I couldn't see the mountains around me.
It took some time but no endorphine shocks, I listened to the Game of Thrones
audiobook for most of it. I was overtaken by various cyclists.

> At around this time I checked my phone to see how many kilometers I had cycled
> and uh oh! I had forgotten to start recording. As such I have tried my best to
> fill in the missing route manually, but it's missing elevation and time data.
> Oh well.

At the summit I saw the cycling couple who congratulated me. I found it hard
compared to the first col, I spoke to one of the other cyclists that passed me
and who was sitting on the ground at the top.

"Are you doing the Tourmalet?"
"I'm not sure, maybe."
"Why not!" I said
"Why not!" he replied

We talked about the weather forcast and the ominous thunder and storm
warnings, I was really looking for some reassurance. Would I be crazy to ride
the Tourmalet in a storm? He seemed happy with this option which gave me some
of the reassurance I wanted.

I was descending now, the descent would not be as long as Puresourde, but the
Tourmalet is almost 800m higher than the Col d'Aspin and it would be the
biggest climb of the day. I had to eat. There was a restaurant on the descent
and I pulled over. I was happy to see they had vegetarian Tacos to take away,
but it was a lie. I got a can of cola and a chocolate cake. The man wished me
courage and I continued to descend to the village of Sainte-Marie de Campan
where the descent becomes ascent and the road of the Tourmalet would start.
Here I ordered a sandwich - which was furnished to me with artechokes, salad,
tomatoes and mayonnaise but no cheese but I didn't complain.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240829_131542.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408281956-13clouds.jpg)
*Clouds*

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240829_140439.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408281956-15mayo.jpg)
*Sandwich*

The mist increased and I was climbing and only seeing the road ahead of me. It
was chilly and there were few cyclists - probably they saw the weather forcast
and decided to avoid the climb.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240829_152708.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408281956-16starttourmalet.jpg)
*Starting the Tourmalet*

There was no thunder. About 3/4 of the way up the hill I checked the weather
and saw that it had changed to thunder at 18:00 and not 16:00 - which was a
welcome relief. It rained slightly, and the visibility was poor and everything
was covered in white mist but I continued into the fog listening to my
audiobook for two hours - looking at the edge of the road - beyond the edge
was just **white** was it a sheer death drop in that white? or just a tumble?
was there a building there? a car park? I had no idea. I just had to stay on
the road.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240829_131805.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408281956-14coldaspin.jpg)
*Clouds*


At around 1800m I passed through a ski town which was mostly shutdown but
there were shops open here and there. At around 2000m the mist begain to get
brighter and brighter and I could make out the silhouettes of ski lifts
through the fog and the shining sun and I had to put on my sun glasses and
then suddenly I saw mountain faces and I was above the clouds.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240829_161736.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408281956-17sheep.jpg)
*Sheep in the road*

At this point I stopped and wrote in the "notepad" on my phone "above the
clouds" and a girl passed me on the bike and as she passed asked if I was OK
with concern in her voice, I said "yes" and then "we only have 2 kilometers to
go!" "It's not far!" I replied. It was still another half hour at my pace,
maybe 15m for her.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240829_164201.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408281956-18tourdefrance.jpg)
*Tour Graffiti*

I was feeling the strain when I saw the rocky summit of the tourmalet and the
hairpin ascent to it. But it was the most beautiful summit so far. I was
worried that the mist would obfuscate the view, but as I was now above the
clouds it added another dimension to the splendor. 

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240829_165155.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408281956-19mist.jpg)
*Mist*

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240829_170449.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408281956-20breakthrough.jpg)
*Beakthrough*

The summit was spectacular. There were lots of Spanish tourists and
motorcyclists and a few cyclists. A huge sculpture of a cyclist against the
backdrop of a sky kingdom of clouds through which the mountains reared up.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240829_172040.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408281956-22tourmaletscuplture.jpg)
*Sculputre*

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240829_172759.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408281956-24bikeclouds.jpg)
*Bike in the clouds*

I decided to listen to Guns and Roses for the descent - which was unusually
steep. So much in fact that after 15m I decided that it was better to remove
my airpods as I clould feel them moving with the wind that was blasting in my
face. I had thought the descent would be cold and misty but the mist on this
stide of the mountain was minimal and although there was some wind chill I
didn't feel cold. In only 30m I had traversed 20k and was in the town where
the hostel was.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240829_173553.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408281956-25skykingdom.jpg)
*Sky Kingdom*

I stopped and realised that hostel wasn't _in_ the town but was maybe a
kilometer further on, I also saw that they had a kitchen so stopped for to get
some beer and some cheese so I could cook and then went to the hostel which
was somewhat uphill and I was pleased that I could still move my legs.

The man at the hostel was the same to whom I had spoken the night before and
welcomed me and showed me around. The hostel is very nice. After saying hello
to my room mates and putting my bike away I went to have a shower. In the
shower facility there was a girl - it was the same girl that had passed me on
the col. We had a long conversation and she asked if I was getting food in
town, I said (regretfully in hindsight) that I was cooking. We said we'd catch
up later.

I cooked and ate and opened a beer and now I'm sitting upstairs in the common
area. The "Orage" (thunderstorm) has come, and I feel sorry for the girl who
went into town to eat.
