--- 
title: "Col d'Aubisque"
categories: [spain2024]
date: 2024-08-31
draft: false
distance: 69
gpx: /gpx/spain2024/2024-08-31_08-48_Sat.gpx
image: /images/spain2024/202408301929-6cheeseview.jpg
time: 5h51
---

Now in a massive marquee tent sitting on a trestle table in a campsite. A
storm is scheduled for this evening and the campsite owners suggested I setup
in the marquee. The storm hasn't happened yet however and it's sunny. A family
is playing Bolules next to the tent which is annoying me mildly. I'm cooking
some pasta and was able to use the communal fridge to cool my beer and cheese.

I had to pee a few times in the night due to beer consumption but otherwise
slept quite well and was out of bed at 7:45 with a promise to myself to make
breakfast for which I had purchased the necessary ingrediants the previous
evening, namely some cereal and some milk. In the kitchen I met one of my dorm
companions, the Belgian from the previous day and we had a good chat and he
before he left shared his name with me. I met another guest who was going to
go paragliding and remarked that the weather wasn't very good but "whatever".

The weather didn't look appealing, it wasn't stormy but it didn't look
inviting. It was grey and damp as I rode out of the hostel past the Theremal
Baths and through Luz Saint-Saveur to the main road.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240831_095620.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408301929-1rain.jpg)
*Rain*

Both surprisingly and unsurprisingly my legs were aching from the trail run
the day before and my hip in particular caused my some mild alarm but the ache
subsided and I was able to ride my bike even though I was not able to walk
like a normal human being.

From Luz I descended - for another 10 kilometers - before the climbing started
in earnest to what would be the Col de Soulor. At this point I got a message
from the hostel "Hey Daniel, thanks for staying! Did you take the key?"

I had forgotten that there was a key, and I replied that I certainly didn't
have it on my person and I truthfully had no recollection of a key. It wasn't
in my pockets or in my handlebar bag. I hopped of the bike in the mild rain
and fished my "good" shorts from the bag, checked pocket one "nope", two
"nope" three "nope" or ... what's that? They key. I said I'd post it back at
the next post office.

I now had a responsiblity to post the key back which annoyed me. It was
Saturday and I might not find a post office until Monday and I'd have that
item on my list until then. I passed two villages which had an "Agence
Postale" combined with the town hall, but both were closed. The third was a
bigger town however and it was open and the lady was happy to help me send it
back "ah! but it's the next town" I pointed to my helmet and said that I
wasn't going cycle 15k back up the col to drop it off.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240831_102928.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408301929-2rain.jpg)
*More rain*

At this point I was just wearing my shirt and it was _wet_ and it would get
wetter. It started to rain properly for the first time and I put my rain
jacket on over my wet shirt which kept the wet inside but at least kept me
warm. The weather forcast predicted a full day of sun and I expected the
weather to clear and as I climbed past 1000m it did and then it was hot. As
usually I was probably the slowest vehicle on the climb and was over-taken by
roadies and bike-packers.

The Col de Soulor was a tough climb and I was relieved to reach the top. It
was now about 14:00 and I was hungry and I felt bad. Mainly because of the
damp shirt, so I took it off and put my fleece on regardless of the heat of
the sun, I just wanted something dry. The view was outstanding and unlike the
Tourmalet the day before the view was unobscured.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240831_125047.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408301929-3soulor.jpg)
*Soulor*

"Do you have vegetarian crepe?" the guy looked confused, "crepe vegetarian?" I
repeated "with cheese perhaps?" he looked back and forth "with milk?". Now I
was confused, apparently they didn't so savoury crepes so my request could not
be validated.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240831_130241.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408301929-5chees.jpg)
*Mountain Cheese Sandwich*

Instead I mounted my bike for the descent but then spotted another "snack"
shop, and asked for a cheese sandwich "with salad perhaps?" "no salad, just
cheese". "OK" then I said knowing that I already had bread and cheese. The
cheese sandwich was good however, with strong, locally made, cheese and he
also brought a pitcher of ice cold water.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240831_131138.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408301929-6cheeseview.jpg)
*Mountain Cheese View*

Then was the descent but it was a short one which passed through a dark
dripping tunnels.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240831_132042.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408301929-8descentbetter.jpg)
*Descent*

_Antoine who I would meet on the next Col just walked into the marquee and joined
my randomly_

The ascent to the Col d'Aubisque was relatively easy. The road was _cut_ into
the side of the moutain and wound forward the edge of the road was demarked by
oncrete slabs beyond which was a frightening sheer drop and eagles sored in
the air and there was a fantastic view.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240831_134217.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408301929-9ascent.jpg)
*Ascending*

I climbed to the summit exhausted and demounted my bike, parking it near a
statue and walking over the road to take the obligatory photos. As I was doing
so an old lady asked in French "would you like me to take a photo of you to
show your family?" I said why not and handed her my phone and thanked her
heartily although the photo didn't come out very well due to the light.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240831_140114.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408301929-10cyclists.jpg)
*Some of the cyclists that overtook me*

Photo duties done I hobbled back to the restaurant with my broken running legs
for a drink and sat on a table and admired the glistening side of the
mountain. At this point a cyclist who had overtaken me on the ascent joined
me. His name was Antoine and he had been cycling for 10 days and we had a good
chat before I said goodbye and had a fast descent listening to Led Zeppelin.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240831_143139.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408301929-13arbisque.jpg)
*Col d'Arbisque*

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240831_143322.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408301929-15arbisuqesign.jpg)
*Sign*


It was now 16:30 and I could see that to make 100k I would have two do another
col, I didn't really _want_ to do another col and also have to worry about
accomodation, so I decided to try and closer campsite and after googling
settle!d on the one that I arrived at some hour previously.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240831_171110.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408301929-16myfood.jpg)
*Too much food*

The campsite had no website, and it wasn't far off the route so I just turned
up and the lady was very welcoming and told me of the special tariff for
cyclists: â‚¬7. She said that I could have the entire "group" marquee for myself.
I had a shower, set up the inner tent in the marquee with my sleeping mat and
bag and nodded off for an hour or two with the family playing Boules on the
other side then cooked a dinner of pasta with cheese and bread and started
writing this post at which point Antoine walked in. He was aware of the storm
this evening and had investigated a few different places to stay before
arriving at this campsite by a coincidence. So I'll be sharing the marquee
with him this evening.











