--- 
title: "En France"
categories: [spain2024]
date: 2024-08-24
draft: false
distance: 122
time: 7h3m
---

![map](/images/spain2024/202408242-map.jpg)
*This is a map*

"Non messieur, nouse somme complet" (we are full) "mais, c'est une tres petite
tent" "oui, comme meme" the other lady chimed in "mais GR1?" "je vais voir".
The lady left to see if this spot was free and didn't offer me to accompany her. I waited in the
Acceuil and told the other lady "J'etat en Espagne heir soir, et ils m'a
demande €75 euro pour une nuit" (I had verified before the lady left that the
tariff for this campsite was €20) "€74 c'est fou!" (it's crazy) she replied "oui, c'est
fou" I replied with a terrible accent, "c'est vrai" I continued. I then
waited for the other lady. 

My hand was shaking, one of my fingers was numb and if that lady
walked in and told me that I would have to leave I wouldn't know what to
do, I was spent, I couldn't leave.

The lady returned, I looked towards her, but she ignored me and "une minute"
 she said. I was feeling tortured, I wanted her to confirm that I
could stay the other lady said "mais, le messieur!". The nice lady then
proceeded to point out where I could stay but was told off by the other lady
"je me occupe" (I will deal with it). Regardless the other lady continued
"mais tout et bon? il y a de la place" (there is space) "oui". Relief ensued.
I needed to stop.

I'm now sitting at the camping bar with my laptop with a beer drinking a beer
and waiting for a pizza, which is pretty much as good as it gets.

---

As related in the previous post I didn't sleep well last night, nor had I
slept well the night before. It was a case of enduring the night until I could
take an early start, maybe 4? maybe 5? maybe 6? I packed up and left at 5:30am
and it was still dark. It would have been good to make a coffee and appreciate
the sunrise, but leaving early is always a good plan and besides I had no
camping gas.

My skin was caked in sweat accumulated in the previous day and my shirt was
damp before I even got on the bike. I felt dirty.

I climbed out of Sant Filiu in darkness and descended into Platja d'Aro where
I passed a runner (who was really going for it at 6:00am) and I was surprised
when I saw a huge number of young guys and girls in the streets evidently
at the end of their nights.

At the exit of the town there was a garage, I pulled over
and tried the door it was closed, but the guy at the counter opened it for me
"Une cafe por favor" I managed to order a double, and it felt good. The garage
also had WiFi and it didn't demand my email or mobile phone number. I checked
my messages but didn't upload my blog, mostly because it wasn't finished yet
and I didn't want to sit on the curb working on it for an hour (as it turns
out I sat outside the toilet in a similar garage a few hours later).

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240824_073712_HDR.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408222313-sunrise.jpg)
*Sunrise*

---

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240824_094255_HDR.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408222313-morninghills.jpg)
*Morning Hills*

I was now out of the fjords and into a flat land. There was a green route, the
Perinexus, which was part of the Euro Velo 8. and a "green route"(a
green route - the Pirinexus) which took me a large amount of the way to my
destination today. The cycle path was stunning and I decided to use my
headphones as I was mostly offroad and I was reasonable confident there
wouldn't be any 15 year old police motorcycles patrolling the fields.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240824_113419_HDR.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408222313-peaches.jpg)
*Peaches*

By this time I had already been cycling for some hours and the music added a
new dimension to my mentality, it felt great and the scenery was glorious. I
decided to further augment my mood by drinking a couple of cans of beer.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240824_125836_HDR.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408222313-estrella.jpg)
*Beer*

I passed some other cyclists the first had his back to me and was fiddling
with his bicycle "Buenas!" I shouted as I went past, I don't know if he
responded because I had my ear phones it. It occurred to me that I should make
more effort to speak to other tourers to learn about what's coming and maybe
share what was behind.

The second set of tourers saw me and made an enthusiastic noise and slowed
down as if to talk, I replied "Beunas!" and continued at full speed.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240824_110358_HDR.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408222313-village.jpg)
*Village*

The green route passed through some beautiful villages painted orange and
white and with old churches and water taps - the water was essentially bad tap
water though as I could infer from the taste. But it was at least cold.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240824_121825_HDR.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408222313-chapel.jpg)
*Chapel*

---

I still needed to finish my blog post and upload it. At midday I had already
covered 60k and was doing well. I was in the reasonably large historic town of
Torroella de Montgri and I wandered aimlessly into the central sqaure and saw
a care with a Wifi sign. "Hola!" "Hola!" "Tiennes de Wifi?" she affirmed and I
ordered a "cafe con leche" and croissant. I left my bike outside as there was
a police presence in the square and in any case I locked it. I sat down with
the coffee and did my internet business.

So far the heat had been good, but at 13:00 I began to _notice_ it. I drank
more and more water and my bottles were warm and they were warm even 30
minutes after filling them with cold.

As the day progressed I could see the mountains in the distance across the
plane, my destination was beyond those mountains.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240824_155056_HDR.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408222313-closemountain.jpg)
*Mountains*

My destination today is a campsite in France which is just after _start_ of
the GPX track I downloaded from the internet. It starts at Cerbere and
finishes at Hendaye - coast to caost. I was pretty confident I'd make it by
virtue of leaving at 5:30am compared to the 9am start the day before. Cerebre
is the first town after crossing the border.

The border is at the top of the mountain.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240824_160259_HDR.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408222313-mountains.jpg)
*Getting closer*


---

It was my first taste of mountain climbs. Even though the summit was only 180m
there were long winding roads. As I started climbing the pass which would take
me over the border it brought back memories and it bought forth sweat. There
was a young guy (maybe 18) at one of the hairpinds "Combien de temps jus'que
France?" at this point I was suffering from heat and had to compute what he
asked me, which was "how much time until we enter france", I showed him on the
map and said up there and back and pointed up the mountain where the border
sign could be seen. I didn't answer his question but he thanked me profusely
and I wondered if I should have offered him water as he evidently had a long
walk ahead of him.

I entered France and descended from the derelict border buildings "Vote pour
le Front Populaire!" posters were plastered on one of the buildings and the
windows were all smashed. The "You are entering France" sign had been defaced.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240824_165618_HDR.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408222313-francesign.jpg)
*Welcome to France*

I descended the mountain in front of the traffic and all I could see was the
blue see as I twisted down. There was lots of wind.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240824_165750_HDR.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408222313-gatewayfrance.jpg)
*Border control*

---

I had googled the campsite at lunch time and was relieved when I saw the
tarriff was €10 for the night. €10! I was afraid that the Spanish prices would
cross the border and now I was approaching the campsite, I saw it and it was
on a promatory and it looked windy and there was a climb to get to it and the
heat was beating down on me and I was watered out and actually starting to
feel sick.

"Es-que vous avez place pour une velo?" "Un tent?" she then explained that the
tent would be ripped up by the wind and there was no shelter. This wasn't the
answer I wanted. The site was perfect, the price was perfect, there was no
WiFi, but who cares! I could stop. It wasn't the end, there was another
campsite in 10k, and a number of them even beyond that. If I were to wild camp
again, then I would at least need shelter from the sun, and I'd need to find a
place. There was no shelter. I looked away, and resigned myself "Do you have
water?" I asked and she filled my bottle. I walked dejectly outside and looked
towards the little mountain ahead of me to watch the small cars driving
horizontally on the hairpin road. I'd have to go _up there_ now. It was 7PM.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240824_145308_HDR.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408222313-castle.jpg)

---

One thing mountin climbs lend themselves to is audiobooks. The slow progress
you make is less about physical demands, it's more mental. It's the monotony,
the knowledge of all the hairpins to come. The audio book allows you to
redirect your mind and concentrate on the words and the hairpins fly by. Now I
was in France I was able to use my headphones in _both_ ears.

But the heat hadn't stopped, it had doubled down (or at least it felt that
way). I finally made the climb and was treated to a welcome descent with fresh
wind blowing in my face. The campsite was in the town and I feared it would be
up a hill, but it wasn't.

The pizza was good and now I'm going to get an early night and sleep,
hopefully well.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240824_195952_HDR.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408241845-pizza.jpg)
*Common French Campsite Pizza*
