--- 
title: Phpactor 2024.06.30
categories: [phpactor]
date: 2024-06-30
toc: true
image: /images/2018-08-19/phpactor.png
---

I have tagged [Phpactor 2024.06.30](https://github.com/phpactor/phpactor/releases/tag/2024.06.30.0).

The last Phpactor release was about almost 4 months ago. I've personally had a
busy time and haven't found much time for Phpactor, and I have to apologise
for not being very present and active (especially when confronted with larger
pull requests). Phpactor is a personal time sink, sometimes it can be a solid
distraction, and at other times it... takes more time than it should.

Reviewing pull requests isn't just about checking the code, it's also about
_understanding the problem_ and seeing if the code fixes the problem in the best
way. The **understanding** part is what I find challenging. I just haven't got
the energy to go there and if I do, then I have to translate the pull request
as it has been provided to my understanding, if it matches then great! often
they don't and then it's even more energy and time to explain and debate etc.

That said, thanks to all the contributors this month and there have been some
great developments.

## PHAR Indexing

Phpactor will now index any PHARs it encounters when building the index. This
means that you can develop (for example) your PHPStan rules and benefit from
autocompletion and hover information.

## Override Methods

The "override method" refactoring has been present in Phpactor since 2017 -
but it was never migrated to a code action, so has not been available in LSP.

That has changed now, you can invoke code actions on a file with a class on it
and choose to `Override one of N actions` where you will be presented with a
list of `protected` and `public` methods which are not implemented in the
current class.

## Rename Optimisation

Another LSP fix for something that already worked in the legacy
implementation this optimisation will NOT use the indexer when renaming
private class members - meaning that this action is practically instantaneous.

Renaming `protected` members can also be optimised in the future (as I'm sure
can other operations), although in that specific case we need the indexer to
locate child classes, so it's a hybrid approach.

## Summary

Time flies. I'm not planning on spending lots of time on Phpactor in the next
months, and instead plan to invest my time on other projects. But I'm sure
there are more good things to come!

Checkout the full [changelog](https://github.com/phpactor/phpactor/releases/tag/2024.06.30.0).
