--- 
title: "Sand Feliu de Guixos"
categories: [spain2024]
date: 2024-08-23
draft: false
distance: 118
time: 11h
---

![map](/images/spain2024/20240824-map.jpg)
*This is not a map*

A long day which hasn't finished yet. It's 19:30 and I'm sitting at a bar but
I haven't got a hotel or a campsite, but I've got a wild camping spot in a
little forest. I haven't got a place to stay because:

- I haven't got the internet and so can't check for hotels.
- The _camping_ is €75 and even the campsite here is sold out.

I should have checked ahead, I won't pay €75 for a camp site out of principal.

This morning started at Carlo's flat in Barcelona, I slept on the sofa and it
was _hot_. Really hot. Sweating in my underwear and nothing else hot. I didn't
sleep that well and woke up feeling like I had a hangover even though I only
drank a few beers the night before and we were back at 12.


We had breakfast at the cafe downstairs and after that we had to get the bike
down. Carlos lives on the 8th floor so we have to get the elevator, which is
however, to small to fit in the bicycle without taking the wheel off.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240823_095507_HDR.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408222313-beach1.jpg)
*Beach*

Finally I said goodbye to Carlos and hit the EV8 cycle route which would hug
the coast for most of today. The first 40k was mostly beach paths. Barcelona
looks like something from Miami Vice. A helicopter buzzed over, sweaty joggers
ran down the promenade, palm trees and cheap high rise buildings and the
ever-pressent graffiti.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240823_094011_HDR.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408222313-arc.jpg)
*Arc de Triumf*

I knew it was illegal NOT to wear a helmet in Spain, although in the cities
somehow it doesn't apply. I also knew it was illegal to use headphones but I
figured that I was safe both not to wear the helmet and to listen to music
_when I was on the beach path_ but after deciding to listen the music and
after I started vibing to Manu Chao in the sun a police motercycle with what
looked like a 14 year old boy on it stopped and me and asked me to take my
headphones out "enteindo" I said (thinks are not helped by Apple Airpods not
being the most stealthy of headphones).

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240823_104550_HDR.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408222313-huko.jpg)
*Huko*

That was a real bummer. Music makes long distance cycle so much more
tolerable, later in the day I ventured to play the music on the phones
speaker.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240823_100502_HDR.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408222313-barcelona1.jpg)
*Barcelona*

It was hot today, really hot. Barcelona hot. I stopped for a Mojjito. I
stopped at a supermarket and got some cheese, chocolate and bread. I stopped
to eat them and found a EU Wifi point. I used the internet and my phone was as
hot as the center of the sun.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240823_144251_HDR.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408222313-mojjito.jpg)
*Mojjito**


I made the mistake of not booking my accommodation the night before.

I made my way out of the flat coast to the hilly coast. The hills were of the
form of fjords. You'd climb around the corner descend inland then climb back
out. It was in one of these first fjords, after 90k, that I decided to camp.

There was a queue at reception, and I realised it was going to be an expensive
place, thinking it could cost €25 or even €30. In front of my was a hiker,
which reassured me slightly. She had a Camino de Santiago symbol on her
backpack and she approached the desk and there was lots of head shaking, and
she talked to the receptionist in German "aber es ist so lange strecke" (it's
such a long way). I also had "todos occupado" said so
I decided to skip the queue and quickly enquire if all the places were taken
"no" she said and I was relieved. She proceeded to draw the available places
on the map, gave the map to me, and asked me to go out and choose one.


Outside the Camino lady was waiting, she asked if I was English and if they
had told me the price, I said no, she said they told here it was €75. I was in
disbelief, there's no way I would pay €75 euro for camping with a bicycle. I'd
expect to pay €75 euro for a hotel. I _could_ pay and it would make my life
easier, but I can't pay it. "I will stay on the beach" the lady said. I wished
her well and went in and said "sorry, I'm not paying that" and cycled away.

20 minutes later I realised that she had taken my passport before asking me to
choose a pitch. Fuck. I turned round cycled 5k back and retrieved my passport
with a smile.

Earlier in the day I had also left my sunglasses in a shop. As sun glasses are
not as important as glasses I considered leaving them there. But they were the
best glasses of the four pairs that I own so I made the logical decision to
turn back for them, they were exactly where I left them on the ocunter.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240823_173432_HDR.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408222313-lookingdown.jpg)
*Looking down on the town*

I was now in Fjord land. The next campsite was "only" 18k and at least I would
make my 100k for the day, but the fjords made it slow-gowing with lots of time
for reflection I realised I should have offered to share a pitch with the
Camino lady.  €35 would be tolerable, and to be honest I'd probably pay the
full €70 if it meant helping somebody else out. Maybe they would have added
extra costs for two people. But that could have been a solution. Too late now.

Motorcyclists. First a big obnoxious one with a rattling exhaust tuned to be
as loud as obnixious as possible, here them coming 10 minutes before they
come, behind the fat one is a thin one wheezing like a mosquito. When they
returned the noise hurt my ear and I swore at them loudly but I'm sure they
couldn't hear me.

When I pulled myself out of the last Fjord it was downhill to San Feliu. I
went to the campsite, maybe they would offer a reasonable price, but I doubted
it. The guy at reception said they were full, but directed me to another
campsite, but said if he were me he'd stay in the forest rather than pay €70
euro to sleep. He offered me the use of the toilets and the supermarket and
the water and showed me where I could stay in the forest.

I decided to follow up on his advice, and finding the entrance to the small
forest waited until the road was quite and nobody was looking and then, as
inconspicuously as possible, wheeled my bike into the woods, further and
further (but not that far) and I found the clearing he was talking about, but
I also found a woman and her dog.

It looked odd. She was throwing the ball for her dog and a guy with a fully
loaded bicycle stops at the clearing. I owed her an explanation "por dormir"
"I'm looking for a place to put my tent" "bacha?" she pointed down, "maybe?" I
replied, and left my bike and ventured "bacha" to see only an ever descending
path. So I walked back and decided to sit down and admire the view and look at
my phone. The woman decided to carry on throwing the ball for her dog. Who
would break first? It was me. I decided to go into town and sit at a bar and
wait for darkness.

And that's where I am now. Sitting outside on a table, having finished my
beer.

---

> I'm now sitting on the floor outside the toilets of a petrol station with free
> Wifi finishing off this blog post.

After the bar darkness had fallen and I made my way slowly to the place in the
forest. I rounded the corner and turned off my lights and tried to stealthily
slip down the path and into the dark path to the clearing. After some time I
stopped to find my head torch which had a red-light (which is doesn't travel
as far so is more stealthy). I then found the clearing and sat down.

It was 21:20 and I sat on a rock in the clearning, I had a cheese sandwich and
drank a can of Fanta. I laid down besides my bicycle which I had sheilded from
a bush. The forest was infact the other side of a Fjord, and I could see
appartments on the far side and presumably they could see me if they tried, so
I hid my bike behind a bush, laid down my ground sheet and laid down my head.

I was paranoid. What if the camping guy set a trap? What if the somebody in
the apartment called the cops? What if somebody saw me drinking a beer with a
touring bicycle and followed me and robbed me? None of this was very rational,
but for me at least irrationality comes with the dark and I'm not accustomed
to wild camping.

Finally I started to nod off, and I inflated my sleeping matress and laid down
staring up at what could be seen of the stars through the light pollution and
the almost full moon shining through the trees and reflecting on the sea which
had shimmering waves being blown to the east. The trees overhead began to
morph into different shapes. I nodded off several times but it seemed like I
was awake just as much. It was humid and hot and I didn't use my sleeping bag.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240824_055121_HDR.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408222313-sleeping.jpg)
*My bed - it was actually a beautiful spot*





