--- 
title: "Barcleona con la Bici"
categories: [spain2024]
date: 2024-08-22
draft: false
---

This morning I decided to open a carton of Oat Milk only to use it for my
coffee and cereal. It wasn't an easy decision, as I'm sure _most_ of it will
be spoiled when I return in a months time.

![map](/images/spain2024/20240822-map.jpg)
*Dash from the airport to the station*

My Dad was picking me up and driving me to Bournemouth Airport at 10:45 and I
was out of bed at 8:00am and after breakfast proceeded to finish packing,
checking and fastening my various packages, as the proud owner of a pair of
scales I took the opportunity to weigh my items:

- Bike Box: 25KG - Containing the bike, handlebar bag, and various items.
- Large Panier: 6KG - Camping gear
- Large Panier: 5KG - Clothes, trainers and various
- Small Panier: 4kG - Electronics (laptop, batteries, etc).

It seems alot of kit for a traverse of the mountain range that can be done
easily in a week with a light load, but I'm riding heavy and I'm budgeting two
weeks to cross from coast-to-coast.

Ostensibly I have a month, it will take two days to cycle up from Barcelona to
the "start" - the town of CerbÃ¨re. The start being dictated by a random GPX
track that I downloaded off the internet, which will take in the Col de
Tourmalet and looks appropriately hilly. After that I should have at least a
week, so may do a circuitous route before sailing back to the UK from either
Santander or Bilbao.

I have to be back in the UK on the 21st for my cousins 40th birthday. The
ferry from Bilbao goes to Portsmouth, which conveniently is also where the
party is.

The first potential point of failure on the tenuous journey to Girona today
was fitting the bike box in the car. My Dad hasn't got a large car, so we were
happy that it _just_ allowed the boot to close.

There was a traffic jam on the way to the airport which raised my anxiety
levels a notch but we got there with an hour to spare, we put the bike on a
trolley and wheeled it through to check-in, the horizontally laid bike box
knocking over anything that happened to get in its way.

There was no queue at the check-in and no questions asked, I had to tug the
bike to the oversized baggage conveyor belt and watched my bike dissapear
behind the rubber flaps.

The next thing that could go wrong was the bike not even being loaded onto the
plane. 

In a coincidence the couple behind me in security were a couple that I met for
the first time last Tuesday at the local running clib, they were going to
Lanzerotti - the girl had twisted her ankle while running with the slow group
over the white horse in Osmington.

Check-in was straight-forward and my seat was directly above the luggage belt
and I was reassured when I could see my bike box being loaded onto the plane.
While I was concerned for the bike though I didn't watch for my camping bag,
so there's still a small threat that it could have been waylaid.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240822_133402.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408212009-bikebaggageloading.jpg)
*I also watched them drop it twice*

I'm currently sitting on the plane we're about 3/4 the way across France.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240822_151210.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408212009-planecloud.jpg)
*Looking onto the Pyrenees*

---

Now on the train to Barcelona. Putting a bike together is harder than taking
it apart. After recovering my bike from the conveyor belt and after a brief
panic about my camping bag not being on the luggage rack (it came in with the
overweight luggage) I waled through the "nothing to declare" doors and into
the lobby.

There was a lady at the tourist information desk whom I had just questioned on
the other side about my (not) missing bag and she smiled and turned around face
me on the other side "is it OK to put my bike together here?" I asked (I
assumed it would be but I wanted to know where to put the cardboard). She was
emphatic "yes, yes. Over there, err, round the corner. Everything, leave the
box there, no bin, no leave is fine" she smiled.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240822_165555.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408212009-preassembly.jpg)
*Pre assembly*

I didn't really know what she meant, but sat down on a bank of chairs and
started ripping the bike box open, taking the wheel out, the headset,
untaping, cutting the cable ties. "Not here!" another member of staff said, I
looked up, feeling like I was in trobule. "Over there" she pointed "everything
you need"

Over there, directly opposite, was indeed everything I needed. It was a bike
maintainence station with a full set of tools tethered to a green emplacement
with an attached upright bicycle pump and a rubber work area.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240822_170045.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408212009-bikestation.jpg)
*Dedicated bike assembly station*

"Then I will go over there!" I said and dragged my now unpacked stuff messily
over the corridor.

Taking a bike apart _is_ easier than putting it back together, for example,
_order_ matters. I attached the handlebars (with all the attached cables)
wrong twice, but took it off three times thinking the second time was wrong.
It took me a full 20 minutes to figure out how to attach the front low-rider,
and the pedal. I attached the right pedal straight away, but the left one
woudl not go on. I thought the thread was gone, so I tipped the bike on its
side, leaned the pedal into the socket and wrenched it, but it never took,
after 15 minutes of this I gave up and resigned myself to finding a bicycle
shop and proceeded to the next problem.

But fortunately at the moment a young english kid came up and offered his
help, he had obviously been watching me struggling and felt he could no longer
stand back and watch me butcher my bicycle "the pedals have reversed threads"
he said. "You need to wind it the other way" and he took my spanner and I saw
him struggling "yeah, that's the way that I did it" I said, "should be...
there" and the pedal was going in like it should have done "you're a genius
mate, thanks".

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240822_174229.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408212009-bikestation2.jpg)
*Kudos for the bike station*

> The bike station was great but the only useful tool was the pump.

It had taken almost an hour to build the bike again which was longer than I
had hoped. Having pumped up the wheels and saddled the luggage I jumped on it
and rode towards the doors before jumping off again realising I probably
shouldn't be riding the bike inside.

The plan now was to go to Barcelona, but I was at Girona airport and there was
no train station at Girona airport so I had to cycle to the nearest town that
had the nearest train station. In retrospect I realised I shouldn't have worn
the best pair of shorts I they are the only pair of shorts I have other than
my cycling shorts and no guarantee I can wash any of my clothes properly for a
month.

Regardless I hit the road, it was warm, but not exceedingly hot. The weather
was good and I managed to stay on the _right_ side of the road. It took an
maybe 30 or 40 minutes to ride to the station "Barcelona con la bici" I said
with the soft "ce" and being able to understand at least some of what the
ticket vendor said to me in reply, regardless of my feigned comprehension she
pointed at her screen "18:52" and put two fingers up "Platform 2" I said.

There were various announcements which I understood as meaning "the train is
late" but as it happens the train was on time and I got in it.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240822_184416.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408212009-bikestation3.jpg)
*Waiting at the quiet station for the on-time train*

The train and was the final point of failure in the travel puzzle. I knew
ahead of time that no special ticket was required for the bike, and that it
would almost certainly be the case of wheeling it on, I didn't _know_ how easy
it would be, or how busy it would be, or if there were limits as to how many
bikes you could have in a carriage. Fortunately the Media Destincia trains are
better than the UK trains with regard to bikes, and similar to the German
ones. Lots of space and getting on was no problem at all.

The internet while not a single point of failure, was at least something that
could make my life harder if it were not working on my phone and it is not
working on my phone. It worked in Croatia a few months ago and I specifically
asked O2 if it would work in Spain and they said emphatically "yes". Well, the
internet doesn't work but I can phone and send messages and I was able to ring
ahead to check in with Carlos and give a rough estimation of my time of
arrival.

---

The scenery became more industrial after an hour. My phone didn't have
internet and I couldn't get a GPS fix in the train so I had to actually read
the names of the stations and find them manually on my map to decide where we
were. I had previously taken the step of marking the position of Carlos's
appartment on my phone. I looked up and saw the station was "El Clot" and
lazily looked it up on my phone then realised that this was actually the best
station to leave the train on, so I took the impulsive decision and jumped out
rather fearing I wouldn't be in Barcelona at all, but I was.

And I was in the city and rising my bike down the roads with the peculiar
Barcelona smell. The cycle lanes were very good although the flashing orange
cyclist on the traffic lights confused me (should I stay, should I go, what
are you trying to say?).

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240822_200838.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408212009-barcelona.jpg)
*Barcelona street*

I made it to Carlos's appartment and rang him "The number you have dialled as
been disconnected" oh dear. Although I had no internet, the phone at least
worked in Girona, but it seems even that does not work in Barcelona. But I was
outside the apartment "Sobreattico 3" it said. I saw a range of doorbells.
Three columns, the third column was SA3. And then there were door bells for
AT3" but also "A3S3" and I took my best guess and fortunately it was correct
and Carlos descended from the 8th floor and let me in.

After a quick shower we went to meet the other two and had some drinks and
some pizza

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240822_224626.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408212009-pizza.jpg)
*Pizza and beer*

Tomorrow I will leave Barcelona and attempt to proceed 100k up the coast.
