--- 
title: "Saint Jean Port de Pied"
categories: [spain2024]
date: 2024-09-01
draft: false
distance: 101
gpx: /gpx/spain2024/2024-09-01_08-34_Sun.gpx
time: 7h43
elapsed: 9h36
image: /images/spain2024/202408311859-3rain.jpg
elevation_gain: 1307
---

Sitting in a pizzeria in Saint Jean Port de Pied. It's been a slog of a day
and there I'm sitting in a room with pilgrims. A Japanese man is talking about
signs and an odly dressed man next to him and a european girl whose accent I
cannot place. It's an historic town with lots of tourists and pilgrims. When I
arrived at the camp site the kid said asked me to look at the tent in the
corner. "that's number 5 - you can share the pitch with the guy there and ask
him for half, is that OK?" I agreed but found it a strange arrangement.

"Are you the Spanish guy?" I asked the cyclist lounging by his bicycle by
emplacement number 5 "No, I'm dutch" he said. There was some movement from the
tent on number 5 but no Spanish guy emerged. I spoke to the Dutch cyclist had
a shower and left the camp site in search of pizza and to write this blog post
which I am now doing.

Last night the rain thundered down on the large marquee that Antoine and I were
sheltering under, in the middle of the night there was a snapping sound but I
gave it no mind. I was uncomfortable and didn't have the patience or mental
ability to make my self comfortable.

_Do you speak German? the German just asked me "Yes, ja, ein bischen" I
replied. He then asked me if I was on the camino and I said that I was just
traversing the pyrenees on my bicycle he said he was doing 100k of the walk
and will maybe come back next year with his wife_

Around 7am it was still dark but I heard Antoine puttering around in the
marquee and I asked if he was leaving. I offered to make some coffee and that
done sunlight was growing and I could see a bag of pasta on the grass outside
the tent. It was _my_ pasta. We thought it strange, when I fetched it in it
had been nibbled open and there were three slugs - I suppose they were gorging
on the exposed and rain softened pasta.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240901_081349.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408311859-2slugs.jpg)
*Decomposition*

Coffee made we shared it and Antonine offered me a Decathlon chocolate bar. I
packed my stuff up and said goodbye to Antoine and said that we'd probanly see
each other later in the day as he's travelling faster than me and we're going
in the same direction.

Leaving the campsite I was still hungry and went to the nearset barkery to get
another coffee and a pain aux raisin before srtarting to mount the Col de
Marie Blanque, the biggest of the two cols I would do today, but significantly
smaller than the cols of the previous days.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240901_090346.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408311859-3rain.jpg)
*Rain*

It was deep thunder moaned across the sky and rain fell and I put my rain
jacket on and it was humid and I was wet inside and out and sweating up the
hill passing a small chappel and belled squat muscular horses which had
freedom of field and road.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240901_093713.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408311859-4chapel.jpg)
*Chapen and Horses*

My legs were still sore from my mountain trail run a few days ago. My sore
legs were certainly a disadvantage for running and made me look silly when
walking, but I'm not sure they caused me significant impairment for cycling
but I was struggling up this col when a cyclist and his girlfriend caught me
unawares. "Salut!" I had my earphone in and we both said "ca va?" at the same
time.

The couple were cycling across the Pyrenees having started in Perpignan and
and this was their tenth day and they were travelling light and staying in
bed and breakfasts. "I think there will be a storm at 15:00" I said, they
agreed "for us it will be fine" "for you it will be fine" I confirmed and
there was some gesturing of "but for you it will not be huh". We cycled up to
the summit as three, and as we progressed the weather got fairer. "Where did
you lean to speak French like _that_" she said with a strange emphasis on
"that". I was struggling with my French, not even remembering how to say the
number 70.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240901_102114.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408311859-5marie.jpg)
*Col de Marie Blanque*

Both the couple and Antoine were going to venture in to Spain before reaching
the coast, into the Spanish Basque lands where the precious mountains could
still be found as I looked about me I saw the horizon. There will hills  but
the mountains were behind.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240901_153613.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408311859-10flats.jpg)
*Looking flatter*

_a young Korean is talking to a stranger about playing Grand Theft Auto - in
the shadow, murder, kill_

The next hours were essentially a slog. At 13:00 I looked at my phone and I
had covered 46k - not "half" of my (flexible) 100k daily goal and I was
already feeling like I wanted to stop, but it was also far too early for that.
I looked for hotels, chambre d'hotes and campsites. But they were either
within the next 10k or a further 50k on. I decided to continue to Saint Jean
Pied de Port. Unlike previous days it wasn't the case of climbing for 3 hours
and then getting an 20k descent, but the more normal, and more boring ups and downs.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240901_140628.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408311859-7hotel.jpg)
*Trying to find food*

It was Sunday, and I had neglected to get bread when I was at the bakery in
the morning. I called up the bakeries and cafes on my map and saw that there
were some in the upcoming villages. It being Sunday however they were all
closed and I decided to eat what scraps I had on me: some Laughing Cow cheese
and a few squares of chocolate then continued my progress before finding an
open bakery and getting my bread and a drink and a cookie and sitting inside
planning my accommodation before being politely kicked out as they closed and I
sat on the bench outside as people came up and tried the door muttering curse
words when they realised the door would not open.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240901_145138.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408311859-u.jpg)
*Second col of the day*

I checked my progress: 55k. Not what I expected. Still 45k to go at least.
The same again. The sun was shining at this point and it was humid and I
listened to Game of Thrones which held my sanity and passed the time.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240901_151855.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408311859-9view.jpg)
*View*

When I was going slowly flies had started to gather about me buzzing in my
face and I wanted to go faster to make them go away.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240901_154330.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408311859-11osquich.jpg)
*Col d'Osquich*

Have now left the pizzeria and sitting outside a hotel and have ordered a
beer. Outside the Hotel de Ville "dance" music is playing and there is a
motley group of people chatting and one woman is dancing clumsily. As I looked up
there are two people with backpacks and one fully-loaded cyclist. "I came here
because this is where most people start the Camino" the Dutch guy had said
earlier "why?" I asked. "to be honest I don't know". But certainly this is
where the pilgrims are.

I rode down the road. Tyrion Lannister has just been accused of conspiracy to
murder by Catlin Stark after he revealed her identity in a tavern. I've seen
the televison series but it's fun listening to the book and getting the extra
context.

I found the campsite and went for pizza.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240901_183925.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408311859-12pizzeria.jpg)
*Vim by the Pizza*




















