--- 
title: Running vs Depression
categories: [running]
date: 2024-02-17
toc: false
draft: false
---
Today my Dad sent me my certificate for running the Bristol Half Marathon on
my 30th birthday in 2010, I got a time of 1h37m:

![bristol half certificate](/images/2024-02-17/bristol.jpg)

So far so good, it's a respectable time, a _good_ time. The amazing thing is
that one year previously I was overweight, possibly obese, and had never ran.

At 29 I was not in a good place mentally, I was loads of junk food, knocking
back large cans of energy drink and struggling to climb the stairs to the
office - I couldn't sleep on my back. I was 3 years into my first web
development job and I was depressed. I was would plan to get knock-out drunk
at the weekends just to escape the monotony and lift my self, however
temporarily, at of the mire of my thoughts.

On new years eve I was deep in an alcohol stupor at 4am in the morning when I
decided that I had it. The next day I would start running and that I would do
it twice a day. It was an act of self-help that was also an act of
self-destruction. I would run despite myself.

The next morning I ran for 13 minutes, I had stitch and **felt ridiculous**. I
was _acutely self-concious_. In the afternoon I did it again, and the next
day, and the day after and the day after that.

It was not easy but I also knew it wasn't an option. I would mechanically put
on my running clothes and my entire body was saying "no" and trying to make me
stay inside in safety. I was _scared_ of going outside, I _hated_ it. Going
outside was a "fuck you" to myself. My body had to go outside in spite of my
brain.

Twice a day for at least a month. I started running longer distances, I
started recording my runs, I wrote a web application to record them. I got
addicted to improving my times. If my time was slower than my last I would
feel bad, if it was faster, elated.

Initially I did not change my drinking habits, but as I started running longer
distances something funny happened - the escape that I found in alcohol - the
lucid state that I could achieve - I found it while running. 

Running lifted the haze of my depression. It was a revelation. I was
_swimming_ not _drowning_. This was done without the side effects of drinking
an entire bottle of Jack Daniels and it was making me _healthy_ both
physically and _mentally_.

Without any deliberate decision or effort I naturally stopped binge drinking.
I lost almost all of my excess weight within a month or two. I still have
stretch marks to remind my of my previous size.

Fast forward one year and I ran the Bristol Half Marathon with a time of 1
hour and 37 minutes immediately after that I had quit my job and cycled around
France landing a job in Paris and began a new chapter in my life.

The amazing thing is that I've now been running for the best part of 14 years
and my current estimate for a half-marathon is about the same. I ran the Great
South Run (10 miles) in 1h19m which fairly translates to a 1h38m half marathon.

I'm disappointed that I'm not faster than my 30 year old self, but equally
amazed that I transitioned form overweight, border-line alcoholic and
border-line schizophrenic to somebody that ran a half marathon in 1h37m in the
period of _one year_.

It's impossible for me to _imagine_ the mental state that I had 14 years ago
because my brain has changed. Which isn't to say I don't have issues - I do,
but they are not comparable.

Deciding to run changed the default state of my existence.
