--- 
title: "Col de Port"
categories: [spain2024]
date: 2024-08-27
draft: false
distance: 87
image: /images/spain2024/202408262003-9colduportsummit.jpg
time: 4h30m
---

![map](/images/spain2024/202408262003-map.jpg)
*Map*

Another beating hot day and another evening sitting down writing a blog post
in a campsite. No two campsites are the same this is one of the ones with a
"common room" with a fridge, microwave and seats. My bum still hurts and my
skin is raw and some of it burnt and I'm pretty tired.

I didn't sleep well last night. I didn't sleep well because there was an
insect, a microscopic fly, which in defiance of its size succeeded in its
goal of keeping my awake. It's flight path seemed to pass my ear every 30
minutes or so. I'd nod off, and then the slowly amplifying high pitched BZZZZZ
and then it was gone. I was unsure of how to deal with it. Normally I'd put my
ear plugs in, I didn't have my ear plugs so I decided to hunt it down and on
at least two occasions during the night I was engaged in this murderous quest.
The lighting in the room was poor however and all I could find was a moth
which was harmless and noiseless so I let it live. I put toilet paper in my
ears (no it doesn't work) and clamped my head between the cushion and the
mattress (uncomfortable) finally I had the bright idea of making a head-tent
with the thick french blanket, which was just stiff enough to provide both a
barrier to the mischievous fly-bys and to muffle the sound. This was how I
slept. This would not have been a problem in my tiny tent and getting a hotel
is never a guarantee of a good nights sleep.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240827_093712.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408262003-1train.jpg)
*Train*

In all the hotel experience was typical. I woke up at 7:30am got dressed into
normal clothes, had breakfast, drank coffee, read the news went back up stairs
packed my stuff, went down stairs, checked out, filled my water bottles,
retrived my bike, said Aurevoir and left far too late at 9:30am.

Today I had two choices: the first was to follow my downloaded GPX track which
feature a single col (Col de Port) the second was to follow a different road
in the same direction and do _two_ cols (even though there was perhaps only
300m descent before the nexct one). The second route went higher, and I
discovered it was the route that I had taken in 2010. So in the spirit of not
repeating myself (not to be confused with taking the "easy" option) I took the
first option.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240827_115034.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408262003-7colstart.jpg)
*What would be the start of Col de Port*

From the hotel I had descended from around 700m to 500m to the town of
Tarascon-sur-Ariege and it was here that I stopped at a supermarket to make my
decision and get some supplies. Having done so I decided to try and get my
German bank card working. I've been paying in Great British Pounds up until
then but I actually have a German bank account with some euros left in it, but
the card had consistently failed. Maybe I needed to use it at a cash machine?
I tried and nope. Then I discovered that the mobile banking app required me to
select which countries the card can be used in, and France wasn't one of them.
Now it is and I can spend my euros without worrying about conversion rates.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240827_095545.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408262003-3mointain2.jpg)
*Mountain*

Before hitting the town I also passed the [Lombrives
Caves](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lombrives). As I had been listening to my
audiobook about pre-historic humans I was staring at these massive rock
formations and considering what this landscape may have looked like 40,000
years ago and what people may have lived here. As such I was tempted to visit
the caves, but I didn't.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240827_111345.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408262003-5therock.jpg)
*The Rock*

My legs were burning from the cols yesterday and I was also unable to tell if
I was going up or down - as it could look like I was descending but if I
stopped pedaling my bike would roll to a stop and vice-versa. My knees
survived the climbs of yesterday and at this point I could feel the stress on
them but they haven't caused me any issues so far.

Everything was very green, almost primal, in the depths of the valleys with
the rushing river running parallel to the road. In order to take the Col de
Port I had left the Route Nationale and there was far less traffic and the
road quality was diminished. I was overtaken by several road cyclists
including one who was only going marginally faster than I was, who slowly over
took me and asked "kilo by kilo, how heavy is that thing?" "35" I replied,
"it's heavy". In fact I was probably carrying more than that now with the
food.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240827_114509.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408262003-6townwater.jpg)
*Water in the village square*

It was a long climb and mostly not an interesting one. Lots of small hamlets
and old barns and lots and lots of trees. I listened to Game of Thrones and
the Sapiens book and slowly the heat became uncomfortable and I continued in
silence, towards the end the "col" started, and it was a further 6k and this
turned out to offer a spectacular look back on the valley with it's massive
and strange formations. Towards the summit I was struggling and fell back to
my emergency weapon: poetry. I managed to remember "The Lovesong of Alfred J.
Prufrock" and some of "Ulysses" reciting them out-loud in a number of different
voices and hoping that nobody could hear me.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240827_121323.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408262003-8wow.jpg)
*Another "wow" moment (photo does no justice)*

At the top of Col de Port there was a restaurant and the photo opportunity and
some picnic tables on a green depression but no shelter, so I wheeled my bike
down the grass in the bare sun to a picnic table and drank my beer and ate my
bread. I was in a green clearing there were cattle-bells
ringing in the woods and dandelion seed floating around and a sparse number
of other picnic makers on other tables.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240827_132548.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408262003-9colduportsummit.jpg)
*Col de Port*

I struggled to push my bike out of the clearing and back onto the road but
that accomplished I switched hat for helmet, put on Faith No More (The Best
of). 

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240827_133051.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408262003-lunch.jpg)
*Lunch*

As I was headbanging my way down the col the most notable thing was that the
trees were different this side of the mountain, it seemed more "alpine" and in
contrast to the other side they were _there_. After some minutes I was given a
breathtaking view which to which my camera can do no justice. When I did this
trip in 2010 I may well have missed all of this as it was raining and misty.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240827_135407.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408262003-10distantmountains.jpg)
*Breathtaking (again camera compressed the epic scale)*

I was heading to Saint-Giron. I wasn't opposed to stopping there after "only"
70k but there wasn't much in the way of affordable accomodation and I had
identified what looked like a "good" campsite 14 kilometers further on. There
was in any-case an outdoor shop in the town and I made my way to it, before
wondering: 

"Do I even _need_ camping gas?" 

I'd been doing OK without it, and why have coffee and dry cereal in a cramped
tent when you could go to a cafe and get a piece of bread and an espresso?
Cooking came to mind but then I reminded myself I'd just been eating cold
baked beans and canned vegetables and that was fine, hmm. Pasta! I can cook
pasta with camping gas and I was surprised to be served by an attractive
woman (or rather a woman that I was attracted to) which for some reason was
not what I was expecting.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240827_163903.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408262003-sunflowers.jpg)
*Sunflowers*

Camping Gas on board I was ready to leave the town and proceed to the campsite
in the burning sun, I looked down at my handlebar - something was missing -
the mirror. I had purchased two mirrors left and right and the right one was
missing. It was there this morning and I headed back to trace my steps trying
to imagine if I had knocked my bike against a wall. It was not to be found and
my best guess is that I dislodged it when adjusting my hands during the long
and windy descent.

It was downhill to the campsite, but not effortless. The sun was now
oppressive when I got to the reception the lady was unusually efficient while
still being friendly within a minute I had provided â‚¬13 and was on my way to
pick a camping spot, and I found one in the field by the river, in the shade
of river-side trees and I lay down in the grass and stayed there for some
minutes.

The routine is to put down the ground mat, spread the inner-tent out over it
and pin it down with 4 pegs, then put the poles in, and then the outer tent.
Sleeping stuff comes next, and I get my inflatable mattress out, and the
lung-bag and whip the wind into the bag, capturing it with a few deft turns
of my wrists then bend over the inflated bag, squeezing the caught air into
the mattress.

![OpenCamera/IMG_20240827_180353.jpg](/images/spain2024/202408262003-13puncture1.jpg)
*Puncture*

But something was wrong, oh dear. I had flung the matress over my bike and my
shiny new rings had ripped a hole in it. I had repair gear and instructions,
I didn't read the instructions but proceeded to paste the glue and then the
patch and then inflated the matress, then it went down again, then I
discovered it had _two_ holes then I fixed the other one and it was better but
there was still air escaping from the _first_ fix and I should have read the
instructions because you don't even _need_ the patch and it's more of a
decorative thing. Finally I _may_ have fixed it and I'll find out later.
