--- 
title: Phpactor 2023.01.21
categories: [phpactor]
date: 2023-01-21
toc: true
image: /images/2018-08-19/phpactor.png
---

I have tagged [Phpactor 2023.01.21](https://github.com/phpactor/phpactor/releases/tag/2023.01.21).

This release is a little bit later than normal as I completely forgot to do it
last week.

Features
--------

### Param docblock generation

If there are any __complex trivial__ types (e.g. generic types, or arrays)
Phpactor will now suggest to generate default `@param` docblocks.

{{<video src="https://video.twimg.com/tweet_video/FlU25KxX0AEHA2Z.mp4"
caption="class-string template param" width="700">}}

In addition the docblock updating code has been improved allowing us to
_update_ docblocks (previosuly Phpactor would only _create_ them).


### Support for integer ranges

Phpactor will understand integer ranges, e.g. `@param int<0, 10> $zeroToTen`.
It won't _do_ anything with the integer range information however, it will
just be treated as a basic `int` type.

Fixes and Improvements
----------------------

Bug fixes:

  - Allow class completion within constant declaration in class #1985 @przepompownia
  - Do not suggest return type on `__destruct` #1992
  - Do not report Prophecy methods as "not found" #2006
  - Do not add NULL to type list (fixes search bug) #2009
  - Create a real package for the tolerant-parser fork and use it #2033
  - Also highlight use statements when hovering on class #2039 @mamazu
  - Fix priotity of "internal" stub locator - facilitating enum completion #2040
  - Require posix extension #2042 @dacianb
  - Fix evaluation of replacement assignments #1705
  - Fix crash on missing token in Indexer #2049 @vlada-dudr
  - Fix missing compact use name false positive #2052
  - Fix `class-template<T>` when not in 1st arg position #2054

Improvements:

  - Support the Psalm cache #2046 @gbprod
  - Support completion inside match expression #2051 @przepompownia
  - Fixed typos in documentation #2050 @d-danilov
  - Psalm Extension: allow `info` diagnostics to be hidden #2032 @gbprod
  - Better docblock parsing and formatting #2004
  - More liberal support for vendor tags #2011 @ging-dev
  - Fix nested template type arguments #2016
  - Fix importing of nested types #2009
  - Reverts #1974 - which made the situation worse rather than better.
  - Change default WR cache TTL from 5 seconds to 1 second to avoid race with
    diagnostics timeout.
  - Add return tags to existing docblocks #1995
  - Naive support for attribute completion #2001 @przepompownia
  - Support union type from class-string variadic generic

Musings
-------

This month saw multiple contributions from several people. Since the previous
release ~40 days ago I have worked on Phpactor for approximately **25 hours**.

I started to look at better PHPUnit support (this release actually
reintroduced the PHPUnit extension, but it's not working great currently). I
hope to add code actions to introduce `setUp`, `tearDown` and for generating
new test methods with or without `@dataProvider`.

Phpactor isn't winning prizes for being the fastest Language Server on the
planet, in fact it's a long way from being able to do that. I'm hoping to
attempt to improve the static analysis engine and/or to offload realtime
diagnostics into a separate process.
