--- 
title: "Day 1: Weymouth-Beer"
categories: [spain2023]
date: 2023-08-13
distance: 76.67
time: 5h26m
image: images/spain2023/beer.png
draft: false
---

![me](/images/spain2023/map.png)
*Map*


There are kids running about outside "une, deux, trois". I'm at a campsite,
not a bad campsite, althought there is nowhere for me to plug my laptop in, or
any table at which to work at, so I'm typing this in the tent. The showers are
hot and don't cost money (why should that be surprising?) and there is a
copious amount of toilet roll in the toilets. It costs Â£13 for the night and
I've got a reasonable hillside view when I stand up outside of my tent and can
see over the fence.

Today was harder than I expected, although I should've expected to be harder
by the sure fact that I have done absolutely no cycling for the past 11 months
save for a 40 mile ride on the racer a few months back.

![me](/images/spain2023/me.png)
*Me*

I am heading to Plymouth to get the ferry to Roscoff. The ferry leaves at
22:00 on Monday.

Plymouth is an inconvenient distance from my home, perhaps 120-130 miles of
pretty tough cycling if you avoid the A roads. I was wise enough to know that
I wasn't capable of doing this in one day, so I decided to leave on Sunday and
break the journey in two.

I packed my stuff this morning before heading out, running through my cycling
routine in my head to figure out what stuff I would need, knowing I'd forget
tings, and so I did. I'm missing my coffee maker, my jacket and my second VISA
card. Theres a good chance I can find a coffee maker in France, I have another
jacket (a spare), and I will need to take extra care with my bank card and
hope that it doesn't get eaten by an ATM.

![catherines](/images/spain2023/catherines.png)
*St. Catherines Chapel, Abotsbury*

I moved back to Weymouth this year after almost 20 years away. As I cycled out
I passed the village of Abotsbury and it's famous St Catherines Chapel and
Swannery before confronting the beast that is Abotsbury Hill and then being
soothed by the view from the top looking towards Bridport.

![looking back](/images/spain2023/lookingback.png)
*Looking back towards Weymouth and Portland*

From Bridport the most direct route would have been to take the A road, but
instead, resaoning I had time on my side and the will to live I decided to
take the scenic route, following route 2 of the  National Cycle Network.

As with all cycle diversions of this nature, you begin to wonder if the A-road
would really have been a bad choice as you are stuggling up the relentless
hills at 3-7kmph.


A-Roads are a mixed bag, some of them will provide you with a good hard
shoulder and sometimes these are free from broken glass and dead animals. It's
good to be able to make the distance up at 20-27kmph instead of 7kmph. Scenery
only goes so far, but there is also the stress from being on a busy road. So
it's sometimes a balancing act. Today I chose the cycle route.

While in Abotsbury I stopped at a rustic village bakery, following behind two
German tourists and eventually ordering a Vegetable Pasty which served as my
main souce of sustenance for the day.

I saw a couple of other cycle tourers but didn't interact with anybody today
other than smiling and waving. Lots of drivers smiled and nodded encouragingly
as I struggled up the hills.

![seaton](/images/spain2023/seaton.png)
*Cliffs at Seaton*

I made 76k today as far as Beer, which is some miles west of Seaton (the sea
front provided a view of some stunning cliffs). I would like to have gone
further, but the accomodation possiblities didn't look great and I didn't want
to push myself too far on the first day.

![beer](/images/spain2023/beer.png)
*Old Beer*

Tomorrow however I have to cycle at least 110k to get the Ferry. This is
probably around 7-8 hours of cycling time, and including breaks I can expect
to be there some 9-10 hours after leaving the campsite tomorrow. If I leave at
8am and it takes 10 hours, then I will get there at 18:00 with 3 hours to
spare (the checkin as at 21:00).

















